```
4

A PAPER BY SAMUEL THURBER, A.M.,

yet to be found. A reaction against the traditional self-laudation of Americans
has begun to assert itself in the quarters where it was most natural,
that is in men and women whose minds are opened to new thought by
education, and whose acquaintance with other nations has been enlarged by
reading and travel. This reaction, like all reactions, commits its excesses.
Its criticisms, where they might be pointed and instructive, are too often
bitter and repellent. But this critical spirit is, in the large sense, a very
valuable element in our civil and social life. I know not what would, without
it, be our hopes of civil-service reform, of honesty in public finance, of the
suppression of bossism in politics, of the prevalence of simplicity and good
sense in our social relations. The critical spirit, its wayward excesses and
all, is our political and social leaven. It is the absolutely essential antidote
to the spirit of sentimentality and gush which, not so many years ago,
was having everything its own way in our literature. That the current
critical tendency hits the schools altogether encouraging and reassuring.
That keen anatomists of the age and its diseases should trace the origin of
the real or imaginary evils which they see in the body politic to many
possible sources, and not find the schools involved,—would have been the
intolerable stigma for us as educators. To have seen the schools ignored
as a social influence would have been far worse than it is to have sundry
vague putative evils laid to our charge. As men and women engaged in an
intellectual function that has intimate relations with the public welfare,
we, too, belong naturally to the ranks of the critics. The young men who
come each year to their majority; the young women, too, who determine
the social environment of these young men, were but a few months before
our pupils. We gave some bent, some color, some ardor, to their minds.
At least, this is our faith. Now this is precisely the statement of the critics.
The critics are in harmony with us in the vital matter of the magnitude of
school influence. They take us into their confidence. They point out to us
a growing laxity of public and social morality, which they at least think
they see; a growing worship of success, which they think, warps men away
from rectitude more than it used to; a growing corruptionibility in the
citizen, threatening disaster to the state; a growing readiness to follow
tempt for labor, which they assume to perceive, in the greenback craze; a
growing coning, or surmising, all these and many more evils in the state
and in society; and seeing them do us the signal honor to ask us to account
for some considerable share of them. Let us remember how nearly allied to
criticism is fault-finding; and how near to fault-finding is accusation; that
accusation is apt to be harsh, and that harshness may easily degenerate into
spitefulness and malignity.

Our proper function as educators is to ally ourselves with the critics in
the spirit of dispassionate inquiry, and to investigate, first, whether the
social and civil evils, for which the critics hold us responsible, really exist
in as
```