Under the rules, vizi., the resolution referred to this Committee, viz.: RESOLVED, that a committee of five be appointed by the Chair to ask the Legislature to appropriate the sum of $15,000 to pay expenses of teachers who attend the State Teachers' Association. A third general interest was passed in June, 1877, inst. against changes of text-books for five-year periods. These measures may be regarded as originating with the Association. P. 77. P. 85.

RESOLVED, That while we would not recommend the engrafting or com- plete kindergarten instruction upon our present school system, we do most earnestly urge the use of the means in the system for instructing young children, and for developing mental activity and thoroughness in regard to thoughtfulness.

RESOLVED, That the cultivation of art is a duty which belongs to the State and its wealth and to this end we urge upon the authorities that as soon as possible measures be taken to organize industrial art classes; and also erecting schools for training teachers and for educating mechanics and artisans, that we may produce skilled laborers at home and avoid the necessity for importing all the products of such labor.

p. 99 p. 106

After the discussion, an attempt was made to present the report on a Home for Disabled Teachers, but as the audience rose from their seats and positively refused to listen any longer, the session was adjourned.

Professor Allen, of Censers, presented his report on a Home for Disabled Teachers, urging that the Association memorialize the Legislature to pension teachers who have taught not less than twenty-five years in this state, and to found a home for those who are homeless and penniless.

Mr. Ross arose with his coat off, "I know salaries are small, he said. "If I had as large a salary as I wanted, I would have got mar- ried, long ago. The idea that a teacher works for the love of it and don't want any money is all folly. The teacher is doing more good than the minister, and ought to be paid for it. I don't believe in telling the legislatures we are paupers and want a pension if they like, but let us have a mind to, and not huddle us into a pigpen. My principle is that in his first twenty-five years of teaching a man should save half or his wages for old age, and - -.

In answer to the question "Does the Association pay?" In the language of Webster we can say, the past at least is secure. Here are the four great Commissioners, the County Commissioners, and they will remain, attending perpetually the recommendations of the State association.

p. 107

In the language of the Association pay? In the language of Webster we can say, the past at least is secure. Here are the four great Commissioners, the County Commissioners, and they will remain, attending perpetually the recommendations of the State association.

[stamp: Common School District No. 12]