Teachers Associations Can—
- Acquaint every member with the crisis in school housing.
- Publicize the nation's school housing needs in the local press and otherwise.
- Pass official resolutions supporting federal aid for school construction—submitting copies to their Congressmen and to the House Committee.
- Submit to their Congressman convincing evidence of local school housing needs and problems.
- Encourage lay organizations to take prompt action in support of school construction.
- Make definite arrangements for several letters to go to the Congressman of the district—not all of them from teachers.

Lay Organizations Can—
- Acquaint their members with the nation's school housing problem.
- Take, and report, official action in support of school construction aid.
- Cooperate with other organizations in urging Congressmen to vote for school construction aid.

Each Individual Can—
- Write to, or otherwise communicate with, his own Congressman asking him to press the House Committee on Education and Labor for immediate favorable action on a school construction bill.
- Stimulate appropriate action in the teachers association to which he belongs.
- Stimulate supporting action on the part of lay organizations.

The Responsible Committee
Members of the House Committee on Education and Labor, whose prompt endorsement of the subcommittee's bill is essential to success, are:
Graham A. Barden (D-N.C.), chairman
Augustine B. Kelley (D-Pa.)
Adam C. Powell, Jr. (D-N.Y.)
John S. Wood (D-Ga.)
John F. Kennedy (D-Mass.)
Wingate H. Lucas (D-Texas)
Cleveland M. Bailey (D-W.Va.)
Leonard Irving (D-Mo.)
Carl D. Perkins (D-Ky.)
Charles R. Howell (D-N.J.)
Roy W. Wier (D-Minn.)
Boyd Tackett (D-Ark.)
Ernest Greenwood (D-N.Y.)
Carl Elliott (D-Ala.)
Samuel K. McConnell, Jr. (R-Pa.)
Ralph W. Gwinn (R-N.Y.)
Walter E. Brehm (R-Ohio)
Wint Smith (R-Kan.)
Carroll D. Kearns (R-Pa.)
Thurston B. Morton (R-Ky.)
Thomas H. Werdel (R-Calif.)
Harold H. Velde (R-Ill.)
Charles E. Potter (R-Mich.)
Richard B. Vail

Work Today for Tomorrow's Schools

Federal aid for school construction can be obtained only by united and cooperative effort. Every organization and every individual interested in good schools must help if we are to have prompt and favorable action in the Congress. The Legislative Commission and the NEA Legislative Division, no matter how diligent, must have YOUR grassroots support. Urge your Congressman NOW to vote for school construction aid.

—ROBERT H. WYATT, chairman
NEA Legislative Commission

[stamp: NEA NEWS]
National Education Association
of the United States
1201 16th St., N.W.
Washington 6, D.C.
Volume 6, No. 4

Sec. 34.66, P.L. and R.
U.S. POSTAGE
1c PAID
Washington, D.C.
Permit No. 5914

MARY MASTRIANNI
N.Y. STATE TEACHERS ASSN
ASSN BLDG 152 WASHINGTON
ALBANY 6 N.Y.

POSTMASTER—If address has been removed and new address is known, notify sender on FORM 3547, postage for which is guaranteed.