[Page 48]

...today do for their upbuilding and beautifying. The schools of the city and the state of New York are the realization of past labors and successes; they are the prophecies of grander success in the future.

If we teach our children to love the flag that floats over us to-day; to do their duty as American citizens; to be men and women worthy to inherit the privileges and blessings won by the courage and sacrifices of our ancestors, then those far-off centuries will witness here, and throughout this grand commonwealth, a happy, prosperous, Christian people, living under a school system made strong and helpful by a loyal public sentiment, proud and glad as are we, to have a city like Greater New York, and a state worthy and conspicuously recognized as the Empire state.

Friday morning, July 2, 9 to 10 o'clock

Preliminary business

Music.—(a) Ave Maria......................Abt.
(b) The Forest Home......................Benedict.
Chorus of girls from female department, Grammar School No. 68, Miss Charlotte Richardson, conductor.

Music.—(a) Prayer......................Weber.
(b) Old Folks at Home......................Foster.
(c) Departure......................Jul. Stern.
Chorus of boys from male department, grammar school Nos. 20 and 70, Dr. Philip H. Grunenthal, conductor.

PHYSICAL CULTURE

M. AUGUSTA REQUA, M. D., Pd. M.

To-day the laws that govern health are better understood than formerly. What we should do, what we should leave undone, we now declare with more certainty. We are more scientific, more systematic. Note the great strides that have been made in prophylaxis and therapeutics. Among physicians the great study of the day is how to prevent disease. All kinds of investigation; chemical and physical tests, microscopical study and exhaustive examination of cases from every conceivable standpoint are being made to discover how to render the individual immune from disease and to give and keep him in a state of physical strength and vigor. Antisepsis has given place to asepsis. The physician is not alone in studying preventive measures, the physician is not alone in studying preventive measures, the sociologist and pedagogue, in their work for the bettering of the race, also find that prevention must enter into their calculations and methods. Oliver Wendell Holmes wrote: "Some people..."

[illegible]