34  
HOW MAY COMMON SCHOOLS BE IMPROVED?

of knowledge than to impart to it instructions respecting any particular science in after life."

Pestalozzi says: "If the teacher is not with his whole mind present at the subject; if he does not care whether he is understood or not, whether his manner is liked or not, he will alienate the affections of his pupils and render them indifferent to what he says."

With the weight of such authority and our own common sense, we need not multiply the unfortunate grievances that tend to degrade the common school.

Of the ability to give suitable answers on examination which will entitle them to a certificate to teach, there is no question under the present system. That, however, does not prove their ability to teach successfully. The fitness for the position must be demonstrated by actual practice. When that fails to substantiate the statements set forth, duty to the teacher, the children, the parents, and the future prosperity of our nation requires that they should be retired. The failure to do this is working disaster to the common schools. It holds an expectant army of unqualified teachers in competition, who are ready to make any concessions to secure the places.

The schools can be improved, (1) by improving the teachers; (3) by improved supervision; (4) by improving the moral sentiment, that will demand better schools, better teachers, better work, better results, and sustain the efforts to produce them.

To contract the number of classes in country schools under present conditions is an impossibility without doing great injustice to those pupils whose parents are unable to conform to the desired changes of text-books on the part of each succeeding teacher. Our State Legislature should revise the school law by the passage of an act that will establish a uniform, graded series of text-books, which should be furnished to the schools at cost by the State. This will not only obviate the necessity that causes the pupil to purchase new books whenever he may remove from one district, town or county to another, but it will enable the teacher to do better and more systematic work. It will also place the gradation of the pupil under the direct supervision of the teacher, instead of grading himself as at present. A series of regular examinations should also become a matter of permanent record in each school. This would enable each succeeding teacher to take up and continue the work of his predecessor without spending one half of the term in getting a start.

Successful work in the rural schools is seriously impeded by the frequent changes of teachers. One is scarcely established before a change introduces another, with new methods, new books, if possible, and a general desertion of the errors of the common school. The frequent changes of teachers is seriously impeded by the frequent changes of teachers. One is scarcely established before a change introduces another, with new methods, new books, if possible, and a general desertion of the errors of the common school.

To improve the teachers will require a variety of means. (1) We should raise the standard of education among the teachers; (2) the education should be more of a practical and less of a theoretical character, and deal particularly with the living issues of the day.

[stamp: New York State Common School]