```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 57

INSTRUCTION.

Nothing came of this. The Legislature passed the act which the board submitted, but it contained no mention of common schools. It is impossible to discern in any of these early educational statutes any acknowledgment of the principle that the State should be responsible for elementary schools. They provided for and aided colleges and academies only, quite possibly in the belief that thereby elementary education would be promoted indirectly and perhaps most effectually.

GOSPEL AND SCHOOL LANDS.

It is indeed strange how little mention there was of schools in those early legislative sessions. In a comprehensive act of the Legislature in February, 1789 providing for the sale of certain public lands of the State, the Surveyor-General was directed to lay out twenty townships, so that each should contain 100 lots of 250 acres each, and sell the same, except that he should reserve, near the center of each township, one lot which should be devoted to the support of the gospel and one other to the support of schools. Here is the origin of the gospel and school moneys which have mystified so many minds. This action, however, contained no recognition, whatever, of the common-school principle. It was only an admission of the property of public encouragement to churches and schools, and that on equal terms.

FIRST STATUTE FOR AN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.

In 1791 an act was passed, authorizing six gentlemen, of whom the first was Robert R. Livingston, to receive certain moneys arising from excise fees and fines in the town of Clermont, in the county of Columbia, and "not wanted for the relief of the poor," and to build a school-house and maintain a school therewith. Here is the first authority of the new commonwealth for an elementary school. But it meant little. It levied no tax. It permitted a town to use for a school, moneys which would legally go to the support of the poor, and which were not needed for that purpose. It put the alms-house and the school on about an equal footing.

FIRST GENERAL STATUTE ENCOURAGING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.

But in six years after their first utterance, the Board of Regents recurred to the matter persistently and heroically. In 1793 and '94 and '95, the board urged the matter in their annual reports, and the stanch old Governor likewise talked strongly and soundly in the legislative ear: in the latter year he spoke in this fashion: "While it is evident that the general establishment and liberal endowment of academies are highly to be commended and are attended with the most beneficial consequences, yet it can not be denied that the children of the community is excluded from the opulent and principally confined to the most beneficial proportion of the community is excluded
```