Page 64

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

Chapter 260 of the Laws of 1841, is very important in that it is provided for the appointment, by the board of supervisors in each county, of a deputy superintendent of common schools in the county, except that in counties having more than 200 school districts, they were to appoint two deputies. Here we find the beginning of the county or district commissioner system.

In 1843, the offices of town commissioners and inspectors were abolished, and provision was made for the election in each town at town-meeting of a "town superintendent of common schools" superintendent, as it had come to be called. In 1847, the office of county deputy-superintendent or county superintendent was abolished. In 1854, by a bill introduced by Hon. William H. Robertson, then and now the Senator from the Westchester district, and always the steadfast and able friend of the schools, the State Department of Public Instruction was organized, and the office of Superintendent of Public Instruction was created.

In 1856, the office of town superintendent was again abolished, and that of school commissioner was created. Thus it will be seen that we have had supervision by State officers since 1812, by county or district officers from 1841 to 1847 and from 1856 to the present time, and by town officers from 1795 to 1856. The general features of this comprehensive plan of school system most advantageously.

EMINENT SUPERINTENDENTS.

In the list of State Superintendents, some very eminent names appear.

Gideon Hawley was, in his way, truly a great man. Of lofty personal attributes and great natural dignity of character, yet modest and retiring in demeanor, yet methodical, pains-taking and persevering to the last degree, he was the ideal man through the period of construction and organization. For the paltry sum of $300 per year, he perfected a system for the management of the School Fund, and for the organization of districts, provided for the fair and equitable distribution of the bounty of the State in each district, and set in operation the vast and intricate machinery of the State school system. The State never rewarded him for his disinterested labors, but posterity will not withhold the credit which is his due.

Particularly fortunate was the State in its general superintendents from 1826 to 1845. This period is covered by the continuous administration of four great men—Azariah C. Flagg, John A. Dix, John C. Spencer and Samuel Young. The first had been in the Legislature several years before coming to this work, and went from it to the office of Comptroller of the State, which he filled from 1834 to 1846, and rounded out a reputation as one of the truly eminent men of the State.