[Page 68 of a historical document from the Department of Public Instruction]

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

are ten of these institutions, and the eleventh is to be opened in the coming autumn. These schools have real estate worth $1,400,000, and furniture and apparatus valued at $150,000 more. Last year they had told 6,468 pupils and graduated 537. The State paid for the maintenance of these institutions last year $272,581.85. In March last the name of the original school will be changed to that of "The New York State Normal College," and it will hereafter receive only pupils who have more fully completed their work in subject matter in the ordinary schools, and will devote its entire time to the technical training of teachers, not only for the elementary, but the advanced schools.

In 1870, the city of New York opened a normal college for the purpose of preparing teachers for the public schools of that city, and from which the supply is largely drawn; and in nearly every other city of the State, special schools or classes are continually maintained for the same purpose. In most cities of the State no teachers are certified or employed who, in addition to scholastic attainments, do not show a year or more of professional training. A bill to establish this principle in all cities and villages, employing a superintendent of schools, passed the last Legislature with but little opposition, and only failed to become a law for want of the approval of the Governor. The law would only have hastened matters somewhat. The inevitable trend is in this direction. The city that does not exact the time will soon find itself behind the times. With or without law, the time will soon come when some special and technical training will be exacted on the part of all persons seeking employment in the schools of our cities and villages.

In the country, the uniform system of simultaneous examinations for teachers and the multiplication of teachers' training classes in the academies and union schools are leading steadily in the same direction.

The Empire State has a proud record upon this matter, and I refer to it with pride and satisfaction. She commenced the work of training teachers early. I do not claim for the fathers who inaugurated the work, sixty years ago, a very clear comprehension of the problems involved. They probably knew but little psychology and pedagogy. They were not thinking for technical or professional training. They were looking for teachers who had knowledge without much reference to the art of transmitting it successfully. In making provision at public expense for even the education of such, they built up academies in all parts of the State, and created centers where learning glowed to radiate and illuminate all the country round about. They reared and trained scholars who, in their turn, stimulated and promoted educational and public school development everywhere. They heightened the general intelligence, and hastened the time when the common sentiment of the people will be forbid that helpless children shall be delivered into the care of other children, or of weaklings and unfortunate on the one hand, as well as the unit favors of [illegible].

[Stamp: Department of Public Instruction]