[Page 41]

dents shall become not only educated men and women of high
character, of noble purpose, of lofty purity, of unquestioned loy-
alty, of incorruptible patriotism, trained to know what is right,
and to do it, to love what is good and to seek to reach it? Has the
state a right to demand these results from the schools, colleges
and universities it supports and protects? Have they the right to
refuse the demand?

The state has a right to expect from the schools receiving its
benefactions absolute loyalty. Loyalty not only in outward sub-
jection to law, but loyalty of the spirit; the recognition of the
right of the state to order its system of instruction after its own
conception of the needs of the state, and of the highest interests
of the schools; a loyalty that finds its best expression in the
efforts of pupils, teachers, people to build up lofty ideals of man-
hood and womanhood, and of the broadest and noblest citizen-
ship.

The state has a right to expect in return for its enormous out-
lay an enthusiastic public spirit fostering and sustaining all
efforts to develop and elevate the schools. Public opinion be-
hind the machinery of instruction should be alert to see that
moneys expended by the state are rightly and honestly expended.
In no branch of public service would fraud of any sort be so per-
manently wrong as in the management of moneys expended to
educate the children of the state. There ought to be such keen
interest and unceasing watchfulness on the part of the public
that corruption in this line would be impossible.

The state has the right also to expect that public interest in
schools will show itself in the selection of competent, honest offi-
cers, even though those officers serve without salary. No work
done for the state by its officials is more far-reaching in its re-
sults. The success of teachers, the advancement of pupils, the
elevation of schools, depend upon the efficiency of those work-
ing without other reward than to do their duty, to benefit the
children and the state, and to win the approval of their own
conscience and the approbation of their fellows. All honor con-
science and the approbation of their fellows. All honor con-
science and the approbation of their fellows. All honor to faith-
ful trustees and self-denying members of boards of educa-
tion willing to do this work. No greater service is rendered to
the state.

While there must always be difference of opinion respecting
methods of management and modes of administration, the state
has the right to expect honest and intelligent criticism of its
work for the public schools. No system is perfect, no method
so good that a better may not be devised. Schemes long proved
successful may be superseded by those interested in the public
schools to see that they are freed from every defect of manage-
ment.

[Page 74]