Page 34

It is an education in itself for our interior teachers to visit the metropolis and look upon the magnitude of its educational equipment. Will they not return to their work convinced that some wise means should be devised to improve, by consolidation or other "school problem" demanding solution? Professor Bickmore recently exhibited to the primary pupils in one of the schools in this city a view of a country schoolhouse, showing teacher and group of children, but not one of the pupils could tell what the picture represented.

More than twice the population and many times the wealth of the thirteen colonies when the British evacuated New York now find home within the limits of this city and state. What may not such a commonwealth, great in its past history, its resources, its opportunities, its people, its future outlook, do for the education of its children and youth? What it can achieve is the measure of its duty. To do less is to betray its trust. To fail in lifting its schools, its colleges, its universities, to their highest efficiency, in providing the best instructors in every institution, in securing the most exact and thorough supervision, in sending pupils out into life prepared for its responsibilities, prepared to set the standard of municipal, state and national life on loftier heights, as well as to elevate and enoble the mental and moral and spiritual life of the people—to fail in doing this is to dishonor the history and to stain the fair fame of the Empire state.

While congratulating, as we do most heartily, this city, the board of education, the superintendent and assistants, the schools, the teachers, the pupils of Greater New York on the work here accomplished and contemplated; while we clasp hands cordially with educational enthusiasts and co-workers, presidents, professors, superintendents, officers, commissioners and teachers, from Lake Erie to the ocean, it seems fitting, in the discussion of "The Schools and the State," to seek an answer to each of two questions: First. What have the schools the right to expect from the state? Second. What has the state the right to expect from the schools?

In answering these questions, one fact is as clear as the sun-light: That schools and education exist for the state; not that the state exists for the schools. In every thing pertaining to its life and power, the state is paramount. No division or class of the state, however important, can possibly equal the democratic in its government matters nothing as to its supremacy. Authority belongs to the state, inheres in it always must be its prerogative; for its exercise the state always must be responsible. Every part of the state must acknowledge its authority.

[stamp: New York State Education Department]