AN ADDRESS BY HON. WARNER MILLER. 11

An American citizenship which, controlling and improving its present population, and absorbing and assimilating the throngs that are daily landing upon our shores, shall ensure the perpetuity of this nation. Well did Winthrop at Yorktown say, "Slavery is but half abolished; emancipation is but half completed, while millions of freemen with votes in their hands are left without education. This is the education they need both North and South. This is the education the people have a right to demand of the schools. I leave it with you as representatives of the progressive teachers of the country whether this demand shall be met.

EDUCATION AS A DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT.

AN ADDRESS BY HON. WARNER MILLER, U. S. SENATOR, WASHINGTON, D. C.

Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen of the New York State Teachers' Association—I need not say that I highly esteem the honor you have done me in inviting me to address you. To me your invitation (coming through the hands of my college classmate, our State Superintendent,) was like an order from old comrades to assemble around the camp fires and revive the memories of our earlier undertakings.

My first independent venture in life was teaching a country school at sixteen for what, to me, was a most liberal, salary of one dollar and a half per day, without board. I followed the profession with greater or less zeal for a few years, alternately teaching and studying; then I deserted your ranks and am now no more worthy to be numbered among you. But I can assure you, fellow teachers, (if I may be allowed the expression,) that I have never lost my interest in the fraternity nor my zeal for the cause of education, and in whatever position I have found myself, I have labored as best I could for the improvement of the teacher and the elevation of the cause.

My early connection with this work and my consuming love for, and devotion to, it, must be my apology for venturing to address the organization which represents the educational system of our great State—a system which is second to none in the Union in its perfection, in its workings, in its results and in its adaptability to the needs of a free and growing State.

In the remarks which I shall submit, I propose to consider our educational system in its relations to government; in fact, to treat it as one of the departments of government. In order that we may fully comprehend the status of the school and schoolmaster in our body politic, it will be necessary for us to briefly go over the history of education and follow it through its various developments and changes to the present time.

[stamp: New York State Teachers' Association]