```plaintext
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

organization of schools. But an examination of the records confirms the fact beyond question. The bill was first passed by the General Assembly in which the Dutch were strong if not predominant. The Governor and Council refused to approve it and returned it to the Assembly. The Assembly adhered to its position and appointed a committee of conference. A compromise was finally agreed upon by which the bill was amended so as to require that the teacher should be licensed and approved by the Bishop of London or the Governor or Commander-in-chief of the province. The bill was approved by the English Governor, but not amended so as to enable him to control the school in the interests of the Established church and the crown. When, by its own terms, the provisions of this measure expired, seven years later, nothing was done to renew or continue them.

Indeed all the English schools in the province from 1700 down to the time of the Declaration of Independence were maintained by a great religious society, organized under the auspices of the Church of England, and, of course, with the favor of the government, called "The society for the propagation of the gospel in foreign parts." The law governing this society provided that no teacher should be employed until he had proved "his affection to the present government," and "his conformity to the doctrine and discipline of the Church of England." Schools maintained under such auspices and influences were in no sense free schools.

Indeed, as humiliating as it is, no student of history can fail to discern the fact that the government of Great Britain, during its supremacy in this territory, did nothing to facilitate the extension or promote the efficiency of free elementary schools among the people.

I observe with interest, in this connection, that Mr. Edward Eggleston, in a most readable article concerning the early colony in Virginia, which appears in the July number of the "Century" magazine, states that the policy of the English government, touching schools in that colony, was precisely what we might have expected to find it to be in New York. In all the colonies it was what we might have expected to find. The nobility reasoned that poor men and ignorant men could be governed, and that learning brought disobedience and heresy into the world, and that kings and princes, lords and earls and dukes, acted in accord with their beliefs.

If the English nobility did nothing to extend elementary schools, the Dutch were largely indifferent to advanced schools. Their leading men were merchants whose sons went from the elementary schools into the affairs of trade.

It was precisely the same considerations which led the English to treat the elementary schools with indifference, that also led to the organization and shaped the policy of the first college in the State. Its business was to educate leaders to the tenets of the State church, so far as religion might go, and [illegible]
```

[Note: The page number at the top left is "54". The text appears to be from a historical document discussing the development of public education in the United States, particularly focusing on the influence of religious and governmental policies on school organization during the colonial period.]