NOTES OF INFORMATION.

The headquarters of the Association will be at the Grand Union Hotel, opposite the Grand Central Depot.

The Reception Committee have provided that uniformed messengers shall meet all incoming trains and direct members to their hotels.

A circular letter is to be sent out containing a list of all hotels and private residences where accommodations may be secured at reduced rates. Further information may be obtained by communicating with Prof. John W. Davis, Kingsbridge, New York. It is important that accommodations should be secured in advance.

Election of officers will take place on Thursday, July 1, between the hours of 11 A.M. and 1 P.M. Only those holding membership tickets for 1897 will be allowed to vote. Proxy votes are not allowed.

Only those holding membership tickets can obtain reduced rates on railroads and at hotels.

The annual dues of the Association are fifty cents for women and one dollar for men. Life memberships are five dollars for women and ten dollars for men. Teachers are advised to write for membership tickets for themselves and their friends in advance. Address S. McKEE SMITH, Treasurer, Chatham, N. Y.

A striking feature of the meeting this year will be the exhibit of school work, which has been prepared under the able direction of Dr. James Lee, Deputy Superintendent, New York City. Tablets, which if placed end to end would be over 2000 feet long, have been placed to show the handiwork of the pupils of the various schools of the State. Besides, about 10,000 square feet of vertical surface will be covered by specially mounted work. The following schools have thus far responded to requests for exhibits:

Every department and school numbering at least 250 under the jurisdiction of the Board of Education of New York City Schools; of Waterford; Roseland Public Schools; Staten Island; Freeport Union School; College of New York City; City Industrial School, Rochester; Public Schools of Glen Cove, Yonkers, and Auburn.

Owing to the courtesy of the metropolitan teachers, a delightful steamer excursion has been planned for the members of the Association. For Friday, July 2, Teachers will leave the college at 12 o'clock, noon, proceeded to Sixty-seventh Street station of Third Avenue "L" R. R., and go to South Ferry without change; to be directed at that point by the Entertainment Committee to Pier I, North River, whence the steamer

[stamp: New York State Common School System]

will leave at 1 P.M. Lunch will be served on board. Membership tickets will admit to all these privileges. The steamer will pass up the Hudson as far as Grant's Tomb, back through the bay to Coney Island, back through East River, under Brooklyn Bridge to East Thirty-Third Street. Time of excursion from 1 to 6 P.M. Every member will receive a copy of the proceedings of the general and sectional meetings, also a copy of an elaborate souvenir publication, which is now in preparation for this occasion.

This programme is preliminary, and therefore incomplete in many details. Complete programmes will be distributed at the meeting.

The musical features of the general programme are under the charge of A. T. Schaufler, Assistant Superintendent New York Schools.

On account of the excursion on Friday the general session will begin at 9 o'clock, instead of 10 o'clock, in order that all the sectional meetings may close at 12 o'clock without shortening their programmes.

Arrangements have been made to take visitors by tally-ho over the historic ground in the upper section of New York, covering the following route: Leave the Normal College at 3 P.M. Thursday, July 1, proceeding through Central Park to and around Grant's Tomb, thence north, crossing the great viaduct over the Harlem River at High Bridge, through Westchester, returning across the beautiful Washington Bridge to River-side Park, showing Fort Washington, Fort Lee, and the Hudson River, and passing through the residential West End of the city to starting-point. The cost of this trip will be $2 per person.

Assurance of seats will be secured in advance by remitting the cost to the local secretary, Jno. T. NICHOLSON, Grammar School, ro One Hundred and Seventeenth Street, St. Nicholas Avenue, New York City.

[illegible]

RAILROAD ARRANGEMENTS.

The round-trip rate for teachers attending the meeting at New York will be one regular fare and one-third. Teachers purchasing tickets will pay full fare to New York, and should obtain, with ticket, a certificate from ticket agent at starting point or nearest station issuing through tickets.

Certificates are not kept at all stations. If, however, the ticket agent at a local station is not supplied with certificates and through tickets to place of meeting, he may name nearest important station at which they can be obtained. In such a case the teacher should purchase a local ticket to such station, and take up his certificate and through ticket to place of meeting.

The certificates must be indorsed by the transportation agent at the meeting, and when presented properly indorsed the ticket agents at New York will issue a return ticket at one-third regular fare.

No refund of fare will be made on account of any person failing to obtain a certificate.

Tickets and certificates may be secured from June 26, good for return until midnight, July 7.

Certificates are not transferable, and return tickets secured upon certificates are not transferable.

12                                                                                                      13