```plaintext
SOME RECENT CRITICISMS ON OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 7

further discipline in our private souls, something new in the critical line must be devised. We have read now a great many times that the schools do not fit the boys and girls to earn their living; but this gives us no consolation, for never did we read in the history of American education, or in our school laws, that the schools were ever meant by any one to teach boys and girls how to earn their living. The assumption that Americans of to-day are deficient in the power to earn their living is one of the most amazing ventures into the realm of shadows. That they are deficient in their regard for the duties of their citizenship is plain; and many other deficiencies we will acknowledge on their behalf. But that there exists an abnormal number of needy, incompetent men and women lacking the power to earn their living is a statement that must be verified statistically before any school officer shall see in that quarter a motive for considering change. Again, some signs of agreement have appeared among the critics, looking towards the conversion of the schools into handicraft schools. These theorizers seem to consider that the conspicuous deficiency in American citizens is in mechanical skill, or at least in willingness to cultivate this skill and apply it where profit can be derived. I believe it is a benevolent, constructive bias by which these critics are actuated, as they propose greatly to increase the complexity and cost of the schools and to come into relations with the organized trades union, apparently for the purpose of doing for the children what the sloth of the parents causes to remain undone.

But I submit that they are preparing danger to our educational system and are contributing to the enfeeblement of individual character. In the first place, it is clear that the system will not bear any more complexity and cost, and in the second place it would be ruinous to lose sight of the established and acknowledged function of the schools or to jeopard its progress and improvement; while it is of the highest moment that we should not permit our charitable dispositions to lead us to encourage parental neglect.

The very excellence of the schools, or, at least, the general confidence in them, has its bad side, and makes them amenable to some portion of the criticism now in vogue. This almost universal trust in the schools as being faultless has begotten a habit in American parents of delegating to the schools much too large a portion of the parental function. In the order of Providence this responsibility cannot be delegated. When you think you have assigned it to another, you have simply arranged to have it remain undischarged. What the teachers, with their excessive number of children, can do, has been overrated. Moral supervision, to any adequate degree, they cannot exercise. It is simply impossible. You cannot, under the laws of the universe, organize for yourselves exemption from parental responsibility. You may avoid your responsibility, but no one else can take it up for you. The orphan finds good friends: he never replaces his parents. But we have contrived so to recommend our schools that parental care has been tempted to forget some portion of its duty, and the children have been, as regards their moral welfare, neglected. Nor is this all. The reaction upon parents themselves of the omission
```