[Page 102]

between methods and practice (or theory and practice), "knowledge of English," "more practical and less theoretical training," "instruction in common branches beyond that required by the Regents."

Is there anything to which they should give less attention? Nearly all said, "No;" some said "fads," "child-study." The proposition was laid down and argued that they tried to do too much in a given time, and tried to do too many things at all times. "Too much academic work" was mentioned in this connection.

To what extent does public opinion favor normal school graduates? All answers were favorable to the normal schools; differing only in degree.

Will you make some further statement as to what would make the normal schools more valuable to the State? A variety of answers came to this question. I will give but few. "Do not lower standards for admission," "larger salaries to secure better talent," "higher standard for admission to give more time for professional work," "more graduates for the rural schools," "graduate only those who can teach," "too many graduates without natural ability to teach," "too many graduates satisfied with present attainments," "critics should be teachers of broad and varied experience," "consider the schools more as they are, rather than as they should be."

Information was sought from about the same number of principals and superintendents whose schools contain from one to hundreds of normal school teachers, and whose association with such teachers covers a period of from one to twenty-five years. The following questions were asked:

How do the normal school graduates compare in efficiency with your other teachers? The replies make the comparison range from fair to excellent in favor of the normal school teachers, the latter measure being largely in the majority.

What weakness or deficiency is most general? "Lack of power to discipline" was most frequently found in the replies. Then comes "lack of adaptability," "too much method," "effort to do too many things," "lack of drill work in the classes," "end of growth too early," "lack of ability to manage large classes and to organize."

What what weakness or deficiency is most general? "Lack of power to discipline" was most frequently found in the replies. Then comes "lack of adaptability," "too much method," "effort to do too many things," "lack of drill work in the classes," "end of growth too early," "lack of ability to manage large classes and to organize."

What what strength have you found somewhat general, traceable to normal school training? A large majority mentioned "better method." "Professional spirit" had a prominent place in the answers. "Earnestness and definite aim" were mentioned by several. Some complimented especially the primary work. Some who reported a large number of normal graduates in their schools assert that they excel in taking suggestions and in carrying them out. "Discipline without resort to punishment" was mentioned.

How could normal schools be made more valuable to the State? In answer to this many call for more professional work, either practice or philosophy of education, or both; and they ask that the practice be made as real as possible. They also ask for higher standards for entrance. A large number ask for "model" [stamp: seal]