DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

WHAT HAS PROMOTED THE GROWTH OF THE COMMON SCHOOL SYSTEM.

Now permit me, in as few words as I can well employ, to speak of the distinguishing characteristics which have made our State school system the leading influence in developing the intellectual life of the Commonwealth, and have constituted it a model for other States, so far as their representatives have had the foresight and the courage to follow it. It may fairly be said that these are four in number:

1. State support.
2. Extent and manner of supervision.
3. Technical training of teachers.
4. Cooperative effort.

STATE SUPPORT.

The State has not, at all times, done all that her ardent educators have asked. Her generosity has been so munificent that their standard has been high and their expectations great. For many years her authority has been potent, and her bounty plentiful. Passing the first splendid appropriation, before the dawn of the nineteenth century, to which I have previously adverted, in 1805, we find that she laid the foundation of a permanent common school fund, and provided for its increase, until last year it amounted to $4,000,000. Acting upon the commonly accepted theory of the times, large sums were appropriated year after year to encourage schools. At an early day, the State began the policy of requiring localities to raise by tax such additional amounts as were necessary to maintain schools, and authorized all communities to levy such additional amounts as they saw fit for the same purpose. More than fifty years ago, the State initiated the school district library system, and since that time has annually made a liberal appropriation to maintain the same. It is true that portions of this money have been diverted to other uses, and that the whole matter needs revision now, but it is equally true that the millions of volumes which the fund has supplied, greatly enhanced the efficiency of the schools, and promoted the mental growth of the people of the State.

In 1851, disavowing the old doctrine that education was the rightful inheritance of the opulent, but ought to be doled out in reasonable quantities as a charity offering to the poor, adopted the principle that the property of the State should educate the children of the State, and began regularly to levy a State tax for the "free school fund." Under this policy the amount raised by general and local taxation for common schools in the State, has rapidly advanced from $1,600,000 in 1850, to $3,700,000 in 1860; from $6,000,000 in 1870; and nearly $17,000,000 last year. In 1866, the State extended to local authorities the power to acquire land for school sites by the right of eminent domain. It is a fact that the office of Superintendent of Common Schools, established in 1841, and filled by Gideon Hawley, the first Superintendent, was a pleasant and dignified office, but one which, in its early days, was surrounded with confusion, and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and completely confused and gained little confidence and esteem. Politicians with intellectual powers and his place and position brought a steadily and