```
♦ Two in every five school plants now in use must be rated as "unsatisfactory."

♦ Within a decade present school enrollments will increase about 25%.

♦ Thousands of pupils are housed in rented churches, halls, and other temporary and makeshift quarters.

♦ Local school districts can raise not more than half the funds needed for essential school construction even if they borrow to their respective legal limits.

♦ Even in the 23 states that have state aid programs for school construction, state and local resources combined are not enough to meet the problem.

A Rural County Reports

Superintendent Marie R. Turner gave the committee a vivid description of the school housing needs of Breathitt County, Kentucky. Of 87 elementary schools, 50 are in frame buildings—mostly one-room—erected nearly 50 years ago. "Every teacher needs a well-lighted, well-ventilated, and well-equipped classroom," Mrs. Turner told the committee. "It is obvious that our classrooms have limited facilities for healthful school living and an effective instructional program."

Superintendent Turner explained that these old buildings were also overcrowded, with 35 or 40, and in a few instances more than 60 pupils to a classroom. Conditions such as these, she said, have much to do with the fact that of each 1000 pupils who enter the first grade fewer than 100 graduate from high school. They also help to explain, she said, why 150 out of 413 boys recently called for military service were rejected as functionally illiterate.

The existence of such conditions, in spite of high local taxes for schools, sets the joint responsibility of the federal government in clear perspective.

Other Witnesses Said:

"The nation cannot afford to permit substandard and inadequate education for tomorrow's leaders. The nation cannot afford to build a first-rate military establishment while having a second-rate school system. . . . Many school districts have bonded themselves to the legal limit already. . . . Particularly hard hit are the fast-growing communities, especially suburban and other nonfarm rural areas, in which property valuation has failed to keep pace with the growing population."—David H. Stewart, member, NEA Legislative Commission.

"Investments in public school buildings will be paying off long after many other presentday expenditures have evaporated."—H. M. Ivry, superintendent of

schools, Meridian, Mississippi, and former chairman, NEA Legislative Commission.

"Washings's school enrollment . . . by 1960 will be more than double that of 1940. . . . Altho the people of our state are making extraordinary efforts [spending $140 million since 1947], the school construction program is not maintaining pace with the growth in enrollments."—Pearl A. Wanamaker, state superintendent of public instruction, Olympia, Washington, and vice-president of AASA.

"In the face of the facts presented, no one can seriously contend that federal aid for school construction is not needed. . . . This is not a dole or a handout. It is a perfectly legitimate sharing of the minimum costs of education, a sharing which has been going on without interruption since 1787."—Edgar Fuller, executive secretary, National Council of Chief State School Officers.

"Federal funds should be allocated to the states on an objective basis with no federal controls attached. . . . A school construction aid program should be channeled on the federal level thru the U.S. Office of Education and within the states thru the respective state educational authorities."—Kenneth E. Oberholtzer, superintendent of schools, Denver, and president of AASA.

"The need of rural areas is sufficient reason for the enactment of a school construction bill. We may delay other building programs which entail federal expenditures without irreparable harm, but we cannot delay or postpone the education of our children."—Angus McDonald, assistant legislative secretary, National Farmers Union.

"To comply with legal school attendance requirements, thousands upon thousands of our American children are attending school in buildings that are old, obsolete, unattractive, inadequate, overcrowded, hazardous firetraps, without the ordinary sanitation and toilet facilities necessary for comfortable, healthful, decent life in a civilized society."—E. B. Norris, president, State Teachers College, Florence, Alabama, and chairman of the Education Committee, National Congress of Parents and Teachers.

State and Local Efforts

All available evidence shows that most of the states and most local school districts are making valiant effort to meet their school housing needs. Hundreds of districts are issuing bonds to the legal limit; many are lifting their assessed valuations thru reassessments; some are voting special tax levies; 23 states have inaugurated state aid for school construction. Expenditures of between $100 and $150 million on school construction in the postwar years in both Michigan and Washington state are representative instances of state and local effort.
```