```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION.                                                                 55

would sympathize and agree with the English aristocracy, so
concerned were the policies of this college. Its officers requested
a royal charter granting privileges. In a letter transmitting this
request, and urging that it be granted, Cadwallader Colden, the
Lieutenant-Governor of the Province, concludes as follows: "It
therefore seems to be requisite that a seminary on the principles
of the Church of England be distinguished in America, by
particular privileges, but of good policy, to prevent the
growth of republican principles which already too much prevail
in the colonies."

My limits will not allow me to spend more time in referring to
educational facts bearing upon the colonial period. We must
content, for the present, with the statement, which is abundantly
supported by the facts, that under the mistaken policy of
English rule, the schools languished, and during the progress
of the war for independence, which raged with great fierceness
on our territory, they were nearly or quite obliterated. The
close of the war had closed the doors or entirely extinguished
the single college and, practically, all of the academies and schools.

REVIVAL OF LEARNING AT CLOSE OF THE REVOLUTION.

With independence and free statehood came a renewed interest in
education, and a strong impulse toward the advancement in learning.
The foremost statesmen deemed the subject worthy their
closest attention. Immediately upon the advent of peace, Governor
George Clinton said to the Legislature of 1784, "there is
scarce anything more worthy your attention than the revival
and encouragement of seminaries of learning." In a communication
to the same Legislature, asking for a revision of their charter,
the few remaining governors of Kings College stated that
the greater part of their number "had died out or departed from
the state" and that many parts of their charter "are inconsistent
with that liberty and that civil and religious freedom which our
present happy constitution points out."

In answer, came an act changing the name from "Kings"
to "Columbia," under which the old institution played a most
important part in the formative period of the Commonwealth and
the republic. In time she accumulated means and gathered
honors about her, and now, under the presidency of a young,
accomplished and vigorous man, whom we hear with so much
satisfaction last evening, seems to be entering upon a career of
wonted brilliancy, and still more widely extended usefulness.

The act of May, 1784, reorganizing this college, created the State
Board of Regents. In theory and intent, the Regents were constituted
a board of trustees of the existing college, with authority to
organize additional colleges and "seminaries," and exercise similar
authority over such as should be organized. In fact, the board
only transacted the business of the single college for three years,
and in that time experienced innumerable obstacles and difficulties.
```