```
2

A PAPER BY SAMUEL THURBER, A.M.,

I do not know but this Association, which very wisely appoints commit-
tees each year to report on the questions of standing in the scope of public
education, will have to include among such topics the Critics of our Schools.
The critics seem in a fair way to become a standing interest. If we once
thought that they would prove to be more sporadic and temporary disturbers,
for whose subsidence we might calmly wait, we are by this time convinced of
our error.

The appearance of this recent criticism of our public education does not
concern merely the private taste or the malevolence of a few writers for the
press. It is plain that some chord in the people's breast has responded to the
critics when they have been temperate and wise. Were it not so there would
be no occasion for turning aside from our proper discussion of the means of
educational improvement, to pay a little attention to the fault-finders. The
railroads must run, however the grangers may rage; the banks must do busi-
ness in spite of a hostile congress; the country must keep its faith in spite of
greenbackers and silver-men. And the schools must go on in some way in
spite of any amount of individual dissent and disbelief.

The critic is not entitled, by virtue merely of his having at his disposal the
columns of newspapers and reviews, to put us on the defensive. For us to get
access to other columns and deny the assertions of the critic, does no good.
It only leaves the assertion of an opinion and the assertion of a contrary opin-
ion, both standing in triumph, and each receiving the applause of its own
partisans.

Our sole business with the critics is to strive to find out what they mean,
and to ascertain whether, in the facts of the case, they have any justification.
For instance, all or most of the critics agree in their strictures on the schools;
or if we can, as careful observers, trace beneath the local and personal differ-
ences of the language which the critics use, some underlying common ground
of discontent, then we gain a legitimate topic for thought and discussion.
Or covering upon no other one definite aim than to produce startling articles
for the columns,—if the reiterations of ill will towards the schools continue
to be pleasing to the public, that fact also furnishes us a real topic for anxious
thought. For why, when we have been all these years vaunting our schools
alone our much-uttered thought has permeated the public mind as to the
supreme excellence of American education, but with this, also, another range
of opinion that has had no orators on any kind of public occasion?

I do not intend to test my powers of vituperation by paying in their own
coin certain specially virulent critics whose names easily recur to your minds
under the general suggestion of my theme; luckily leaves us at liberty to con-
sider the criticism whose violent prop-erty fordoes itself; luckily leaves us at
liberty to consider the criticism whose violent prop-erty fordoes itself; luckily
leaves us at liberty to consider the criticism whose violent prop-erty fordoes
itself; luckily leaves us at liberty to consider the criticism whose violent prop-
erty fordoes itself. The worst temptation into which the acerbity and sensa-
tional writing against the schools is apt to lead us, is the temptation to use
```