12  
EDUCATION AS A DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT.  

Until within the past two or three centuries, education and educational systems were treated as matters outside of governmental control, and were left to the voluntary action of parents or considered a part of the religious system, and as such were under the direction of the priesthood, which not infrequently shut out the people from any share in the knowledge of the times, reserving all knowledge to their own order, so that they might easily rule the masses for their own special profit. Particularly was this the true of the priests of ancient India and Egypt. Some of the more enlightened nations of antiquity prescribed a system of education and maintained a governmental supervision over it, but did not support it from the public treasury, nor make it compulsory. Among such the Greek and Roman systems deserve our special notice.  

First in order of date and importance comes the Greek education. A system which produced the greatest generals, statesmen, orators, philosophers, poets and artists, can but command our most careful consideration. The present occasion will permit but a limited examination into that system of education which I consider the most wonderful product of the human mind in any age.  

The Greek parent who should have refused or neglected to educate his son would have been looked upon as little better than a barbarian and under Greek law he would have had no claim on his son for support in his old age. The public education of the Greek youth began at the age of six, and was divided into three parts: first, termed "letters," which included reading, writing and grammar in the sense of the word as now used; second, "music," which included not only music in the now used, but also the study of the poets and in general the study of all subjects which tended to produce perfectly developed and harmonious intellectual powers; third, "gymnastics," which meant such a training of the body as fitted the Greek youth for the Olympic games or prepared him for war, which in those days required great physical powers; it also did much toward producing that perfection of the human form which has been preserved to us by their artists, and has never yet been equaled with it, and he has left us his ideal "Republic" his views of what he consider a perfect system. He was not satisfied to leave education to the voluntary action of parents or society; he would have considered it entirely controlled by the State and made obligatory. So far as history tells us, I think, Plato may be considered the first advocate of compulsory education. Under his system the State was to take charge of the child at seven years of age and instruct it in the morals and gymnastics until it was ten years old. From the tenth to the thirteenth year it was to be taught reading and writing; from the thirteenth to the sixteenth year it was to be taught poetry and music; from the sixteenth to the twentieth the youth was to learn the art of war; at twenty the young man made selection of his profession, and then spent ten years in preparation for its duties and in study.  

[illegible]  
[stamp: New York State Common School System]  
[illegible]  