```plaintext
SOME RECENT CRITICISMS ON OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 9

When the school laws shall have been so amended that the recipients of the public education shall repay in money some slight portion of its cost, the burden on the treasury and the burden on the minds of the critic will, indeed, be lessened, but that will be a secondary and incidental gain. The chief advantages will be the establishment of wholesome relations between the citizens and the schools. Only persons of superior culture think rightly of the town or city treasury. Drafts upon it are regarded with as much nonchalance as dippings from the sea. The little rills of hard-earned dollars that flow into it are all so merged in its impersonal coffers that the labor and the privations which these dollars represent are not suspected when they are paid out again. No dollars appear so small in relation to their source, and so easily parted with, as those that come from the general purse. The dollars that pay for education need to be in some way magnified. When paid into the hands of teachers they ought still to smack of the toil that earned them. The parent should have to meet his school assessent, that he may have, approximately, as feeling reminders of the value of education, as the dentist gives him of the preciousness of his children's teeth. Between thrift and education there should such relation, in fact, that some thrift will be necessary to secure a little, and more thrift to secure more, education.

I know perfectly well by what current of present tendency this suggestion of mine will be overwhelmed. There has always been exultation over the abolition of the rate-bills, and the "leading educators" have been wont to air their oratory over the freedom of the schools. It is an old habit to think of education as being without cost; and in a convention of any other kind of persons, politicians excepted, I doubt if the general voice could defend it at all. Those teachers who urge still further freedom of education, namely, the gratuitous supplying of text-books to pupils, are logical, but very unwise. In saying that they are inviting certain and extreme reaction, I think I am founding my assertion on a correct forecast of social development.

Over the high school part of our system some of the critics are especially unhappy. And here again I must grant them a large measure of reason. Of those who would abolish or mutilate the high schools, I say nothing here, as their purpose is too merely destructive to be reasoned with. We high school teachers cannot, at the same time, reason with critics and ward off destroyers. At the present moment we are dealing with critics. Some of these they perceive a basis of social classification in our people, which should also become a principle of classification of education; and they affirm that the high schools should be shorn of certain features that belong properly to upper class education, so as to leave them with humbler aims, as is fitting for schools destined for the lower classes. As I cannot see how a social classification is possible, and have never learned what criteria of division are to be adopted, I am too much in the dark concerning the purpose of these criticisms to announce any opinion as to the likelihood of its realization. Those
```