```
History of the New York State Teachers' Association
by Hyland C. Kirk

At a meeting of the Albany County Teachers' Association held March 29th
instant, a motion was made favoring the organization of a Teachers'
Association at the Albany County Teachers' Association Convention. This
resolution was strongly endorsed by the Hon. W. Valentine, Salen Town,
Salem, State Convention. A committee consisting of E. Freeman, J. L.
Chapman, and A. Patch, was appointed to correspond with teachers and make
arrangements.

RESOLVED, that the educational wants of this state require at the
hands of its practical educators more vigorous effort, and that the best
means of imparting a living energy to the instruction will be secured by
the organization of a Teachers' Association and the publication of a
teachers' paper.

RESOLVED, that the granting of licenses to those of the same
profession calling as the appropriate sphere of others, and is no more
than is accorded to all other professions respectively.

On motion of Dr. Oborn, a committee of five was appointed to report
the names of officers for the association - viz., Valentine, McKeen,
Earle, Chester Dewey, Howie, of Rochester, President; W. H. Scranton,
Vice-President; E. E. Biddle, Recording Secretary; John Wright, Recording
Secretary; Dr. Osborne, or Treasurer.

p/17
p/17

I can conceive of no practicable or legi-
time means that commends itself to our understand-
ing as a proper system for elevating the standard
of education that shall be national, and for the
interest of the whole people, without the control
of the system being in the hands of the learner,
and the interest of the learner to be fully con-
sidered. In such a system there shall be no limit
to the interest of the learner, and the interest
of the learner shall be fully considered. In such
a system there shall be no limit to the interest
of the learner, and the interest of the learner
shall be fully considered. In such a system there
shall be no limit to the interest of the learner,
and the interest of the learner shall be fully
considered. In such a system there shall be no
limit to the interest of the learner, and the
interest of the learner shall be fully considered.

The constitution of the Association was amended, making county
associations auxiliary to the state association, and giving during the
following year the organization of county associations. Great interest
was taken in the organization of county associations. Henry Barnard,
of Connecticut, Hon. Ira Mayhew, of Michigan, Professor Henry Norton of
Toronto, Mr. Henry Hirzel, of Switzerland, were present as visitors and
addressed the Association.

Mr. Bulkeley's early teaching was in Troy, N. Y., where he opened
in the Albany public schools, and in
his private schools. He afterward taught
in Troy, N. Y., where he opened in the
Albany public schools, and in his private
schools.
```