[Page 50 of a historical document from the Department of Public Instruction, discussing the impact of common schools on general intelligence and the qualities of first Dutch immigrants.]

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

papers, discusses the tariff and goes to the Legislature. Each owns a home, supports a church and mingles in affairs. Each constitutes the right kind of material out of which to erect a free State. If there is to be discrimination at all, it must be in favor of the masses fairly developed, rather than of the few exceptionally intellectual or unusually prominent.

COMMON SCHOOLS PROMOTE GENERAL INTELLIGENCE.

What is the prominent and conspicuous influence which has led to this general enlightenment of the people? It is not leadership, except as leadership planned wisely in the beginning. It is not due to favorable circumstances; it is in spite of unfavorable ones. It is not due to the development of physical and material resources. That would be misplacing cause and effect. It is not the work of the university, unless it be indirectly and remotely. The common history of New York unmistakably shows that this widespread intelligence among her people was not manifest until the State placed common schools within easy distance of every home, and that from the time when this policy was well established, her career has been practically unparalleled in the history of States.

QUALITIES OF FIRST DUTCH IMMIGRANTS.

Let us then spend an hour in investigating the rise and tracing the progress of the State public school system.

When America was first settled, Europe was just emerging from the gloom of the "Middle Ages." The prerogatives of kings were being called in question, and the walled castle and the mailed knight were surely doomed. Commercial enterprise was beginning to show itself, industry was becoming honorable, learning was claiming some attention. Society, which had been prostrate for centuries before the feudal lord, was getting upon its feet again. Nowhere else was this so marked as in the Low Countries. Holland was the chief commercial and industrial nation of the world at the opening of the seventeenth century. It was doing more for education, and had a fuller conception of the value of civil liberty than any other. Mr. Motley, in his history of the Dutch Republic, says, "the children of the wealthier classes enjoyed great facilities for education in all the great capitals," and that "intellectual cultivation was not confined to a remarkable degree among the higher orders, but on the contrary, it was diffused among the hard-working citizens and handicraftsmen. This people had sprung from studly Teutonic and Celtic tribes and inherited a thrifty disposition and a manly and independent bearing. They had but just followed the lead of the finest orator of the most sagacious statesman, and the greatest soldier of the sixteenth century, in a revolt against arbitrary power, and had fought most heroically and suffered incomparably in the world's first and most memorable contest for liberty. Without democracy, the Dutch had been struggling and striving for self-government, giving the f[?] to the establishment of public institutions of ci[?] and cont[?] in their ways and the[?]

[The text continues on the next page, with a partial view of the next paragraph visible.]

[The page shows signs of age with some discoloration and a slight crease on the left margin. The text is printed in a serif typeface typical of the 19th century.]