```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 53

ballot for the nominees, the motion was declared out of order and the election proceeded as provided by the constitution.

Superintendent Benham of Niagara Falls introduced the following resolution :

Resolved, That we do not favor the proposed change of appointing the state superintendent of public instruction by the board of regents; and be it further resolved, that the following named committee be appointed by this association to appear before the committee of education on Thursday next at 3 o'clock P. M. to oppose the proposition to have the state superintendent appointed by the board of regents: President Geo. E. Hardy, of New York; Commissioner F. R. Smith, of St. Lawrence county; Principal E. N. Jones, of Plattsburgh.

It was moved and seconded that the resolution be adopted as read, without referring to the committee on resolutions. A division being called for, the resolutions were adopted by a vote of 50 to 2.

The president then introduced Commissioner Elwood of Herkimer county.

COMMISSIONER ELWOOD'S PAPER.

THE OUTLOOK FOR THE RURAL SCHOOL.

To say that the outlook for the rural school is discouraging is to state the fact of the condition. The immediate prospect is not bright. Nevertheless the activity which pervades every department of educational work in our state, tending toward the solution of puzzling problems, makes it appear reasonable that while the outlook may be discouraging it is not disheartening. The educational forces of the state lend the encouragement that a genuine school may soon be found. While the inhabitants of the rural districts should furnish the interest to give the outlook a rosyate appearance, associations of teachers and officers need to furnish the incentives which will lead the democracy to act. For more than a score of years practical men, thoroughly acquainted with the conditions, have seriously questioned whether or not the results obtained by the children of the rural school in any large degree commensurate with the money expended and effort employed. When a problem which concerns the life of an intelligent community is not solved after an agitation of twenty years it becomes a serious affair.

In the time which it is my purpose to occupy I can only glance at a few phases of a near and far view of the situation.

The usual classification calls all schools outside of the cities rural schools. By the rural schools I mean the thousands of schools on hillsides and in valleys, away from the commercial pulsations of the railway, the telephone, and a postoffice through which circulates the daily newspaper. Villages and hamlets, to which one or more of these agencies come, will maintain and support fairly well a school because these pulsations emphasize, silently but emphatically, the necessity for it. It need not be told to you that more than one-half of the eleven thousand schools of our state are located two miles from anywhere, and on a road, the direction of which, is toward extermination; in those parts of the
```