```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 73

...instead of the plain ceilings in common use, arched ones
have been constructed with great advantage, and at little additional
expense; and that, "for the purpose of ventilating the rooms, the
windows should be rather to let down the upper, than to raise
the lower sash of the air, rendered unfit for respiration, may be
easily remedied without exposing the students seated next to the
wall to currents which pass through the windows, or tempting them
to external objects to the neglect of their proper studies."

[stamp: State Teachers' Association]

...This mode of seating pupils is easily carried into effect by
having the base of the building into a dodecagon or a polygon of a
less number of sides, separated into two unequal divisions by a
partition, and in the larger division should be the seat and table of
the instructor. On the floor of the principal room there should be
constructed three or four concentric ranges of seats, ascending from
the center towards the periphery of the room—as in a theater—
and crossed by partitions five feet high, regularly converging
toward the instructor's seat." If pupils failed to emerge from this
formidable machine, with their physical, mental and moral natures
thoroughly developed and well-polished off, the educational situation
would seem to be in as serious a fix as the pupils were when
in the box.

We must pass from this early convention, although we might
pursue our investigations into its proceedings, with great interest.
The convention concluded its deliberations by adopting an address
to the public in which it set forth, with much ability, the needs of the
schools and called a meeting of "the friends of education from every
State in the Union," in New York city, on the first Wednesday in
May, 1837, for the formation of "a National Lyceum—a republic
of letters, coextensive with one political confederacy, whose aim
it shall be to establish, as far as practicable, a universal system of
education, reciprocally to yield and enjoy the advantages of each
other's discovery, to bind ourselves in firmer association of literature
and science, and relieve the asperities of conflicting interests and
intellectual jealousy by the interchange of intellectual treasure."

[illegible]

OTHER STATE CONVENTIONS.

Other conventions were subsequently held, but not with
regularity, until 1845. One occurred at Albany in September,
1836, and another at Utica in May, 1837. In May, 1842, a State
convention of county superintendents was held at Utica, which
```