```plaintext
78 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

vide school district libraries. She was the first to publish a journal exclusively devoted to the interests of common schools. The first local association of a permanent character in the country among school teachers was in New York city. The first State Teachers' Convention in the country was held at Utica, and the oldest permanent State Teachers' Association in America is the one I now have the honor to address. The first State Teachers' Convention in the country was held at Utica, and the oldest permanent State Teachers' Association in America is the one I now have the honor to address. The first State Teachers' Convention in the country was held at Utica, and the oldest permanent State Teachers' Association in America is the one I now have the honor to address. The first State Teachers' Convention in the country was held at Utica, and the oldest permanent State Teachers' Association in America is the one I now have the honor to address. The first State Teachers' Convention in the country was held at Utica, and the oldest permanent State Teachers' Association in America is the one I now have the honor to address. The first State Teachers' Convention in the country was held at Utica, and the oldest permanent State Teachers' Association in America is the one I now have the honor to address. The first State Teachers' Convention in the country was held at Utica, and the oldest permanent State Teachers' Association in America is the one I now have the honor to address. The first State Teachers' Convention in the country was held at Utica, and the oldest permanent State Teachers' Association in America is the one I now have the honor to address. The first State Teachers' Convention in the country was held at Utica, and the oldest permanent State Teachers' Association in America is the one I now have the honor to address. The first State Teachers' Convention in the country was held at Utica, and the oldest permanent State Teachers' Association in America is the one I now have the honor to address.

CRITICISMS UPON THE SCHOOLS.

Criticisms upon the work of the public schools is frequent. Sometimes it is intelligent and just. Criticism of this class is always welcome. But most of it is not of this kind. You may have heard of the man who could never appreciate the new moon because of his veneration for the old moon. Undoubtedly, you could make such pies as his mother made when he was a boy. Those men are among us yet. In the fitness of things they longer on this side of the river in a world that, according to their idea, is continually becoming more and more degenerate and deplorable. They will insist that there never was such a school as the one in the little red school-house near their country home, with its slab benches, text-books which had been handed down through many generations, and a teacher who [illegible] principle qualifi
```