N. Y. S. Teachers' Association

psychology, pedagogy, history of education, methods, observation of model teaching and actual practice in teaching. It had a succession of remarkably able principals. Page, Perkins, Woolworth, Cochran, Arey, Alden and Waterbury, each of whom left his impress upon the education of his time. On the death of the last Dr. Wm. J. Mime was elected principal, and accepted on condition that the school be made a normal college, doing purely professional work. Consequently, on March 13, 1890, the Albany Normal School was chartered by the Regents as the New York State Normal College with power to confer the degrees of Bachelor, Master and Doctor of Pedagogy, and so continues until now.

In September, 1853, a most fortunate event occurred for the cause of professional education in the appointment of Dr. Edward A. Sheldon as superintendent of the Oswego public schools. Dr. Sheldon had become a deep student of pedagogy and an advocate of the objective method of teaching. He clearly formulated certain pedagogical principles in his own mind which he applied in the organization and conduct of the schools of his city.

1. That the different faculties of the child develop at different periods and in a definite order, and that the lessons of the child should be adapted to the state of its mind.
2. That the education of the child should begin when the exercise of mind begins, and should follow the natural order of development.
3. Education does not consist in the amount of knowledge taken into the mind without, but in the amount it can gain from its own exercise and development from within.

He conceived the idea of introducing Pestalozzian methods of teaching in his schools, and the Oswego Board of Education agreed that he might secure a teacher for this purpose, if it did not cost the city anything. Through the influence of Dr. Sheldon certain of his teachers gave up a portion of their salaries, and by this means he was able to import from a large training school in London a woman of large experience and rare skill in the use of these methods in the person of Miss M. E. M. Jones. Soon after Herman Krusi, the son of Pestalozzi's most trusted assistants, was added to his faculty. A series of experiments in objective teaching began at once which attracted educators from all over the country, and greatly influenced elementary instruction in America from that time. Abstract educational theories had been discussed for a long time by educational leaders, but to Dr. Sheldon belongs the credit of applying these ideas in actual practice.

The Oswego school gained an enviable reputation, and by an act of the Legislature, passed in March 1863, the Treasurer of the State was directed to pay $3,000 annually for two years towards its support, provided suitable buildings and grounds should be furnished the school, and fifty teachers be taught therein for forty weeks each year. By this act each senatorial district was entitled to send two first-class teachers to this school each year free of tuition. The school was opened for outside pupils April 18, 1864, and thus started the second State normal school in our State.

The course of instruction, embracing one year divided into three terms, included methods of instruction in all the English branches usually taught in the common schools. The demand for its graduates was immediate and greater than the supply, and the fame soon spread far beyond the borders of the State. The debt which the cause of education owes to its first principal, Dr. Sheldon, because of his pedagogic insight, his unselfish and persistent devotion to the work which lay so near his great, manly heart is beyond computation.

The Oswego normal school did not emphasize scholarship as such, its purpose evidently being to inculcate and apply the principles of objective teaching. Leonard Woods Richardson, in his monograph on "The Normal School Idea," says, "In the course of a few years," subsequent to the founding of the school, "an opinion became prevalent that the graduates of the Oswego school lacked scholarship," and that "four additional normal schools were founded to specially supplement what was considered to be a deficiency at Oswego."

Under a general act passed April 7, 1866, normal schools were established at Brockport, Cortland, Fredonia and Potsdam. Buffalo and Geneseo followed soon after, having been authorized by special acts. These schools were both opened in 1871.

In the courses of study adopted by the first four schools mentioned particular emphasis was placed on scholarship. Oswego immediately responded to this sentiment, and gave subject matter a larger place in her curriculum. In 1870,

[stamp: New York State Library]