```plaintext
SOME RECENT CRITICISMS ON OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 11

about his pet from any one else. We teachers have always been trenchant in our criticisms about the schools when our own thought took the critical turn. Association and convention records are fall of criticism by which our own minds have been eased at sundry times. To have had our example followed by others, to see our institute critics outriticised, has its flattering aspect for us as well as its irritating one. We are learning many lessons. The profession needs something like a drubbing to give it a trifle more belief in the hard fact, and less in the refinements of method. We are not cutting just the right figure for men who have such vital interests in their keeping. The "leading educators" of children who talk a dialect that parents cannot understand, and quarel before the world about the simple elements of teaching, cannot expect to be exempt from the flings of the disrespectful press. Conclaves of men, many of whom do not teach, some of whom never did, and of whom a few taught badly when they taught, sitting as high arch-bishops of American education, present an irresistible temptation to the eynical critic. It is in the nature of things.

EDUCATIONAL JOURNALISM.

AN ADDRESS BY C. W. BARDEEN, EDITOR OF THE SCHOOL BULLETIN.

The title to this paper was chosen by the worthy President of our Association, and was inquiring in his editorial columns for information as to how anybody made educational journals pay. It is a matter of honest regret to the rest of us that he didn't find out, for under his charge Barnes's Educational Monthly was, of all our exchanges, the brightest and most quotable. In fact, the quotations are still so frequent that we find many of its pungent paragraphs dished up again and again in our monthly contemporaries. It will be long before we can cry, "Peace to its rehashes!"

In May, 1880, the Commissioner of Education sent out a quarto circular giving a list of volumes and single numbers of educational journals which were wanted to complete the files in the Bureau at Washington. This list named 147 such periodicals, and yet omitted most of those begun within the last ten years, of which the Bureau had usually complete files. Not counting college papers or those issued exclusively for the benefit of certain institutions, I now receive in exchange 60 educational journals, of which 8 are weekly, 4 fortightly, 1 bi-monthly, and 46 monthly. But the list requires constant revision. I can count on my fingers 43 school journals of some promise which have been on the list during these seven years, and are now extinct, or "merged" into more fortunate rivals. It is safe to say that 200 educational journals, and I presume the number exceeds 300, have in this country breathed at least a brief life.

Of my 80 exchanges, 2 were started in 1852, 2 in 1856, 2 in 1868, 1 each
```