[Page 37]

spent for education, but where the governmental supervision of the schools is the most complete." No subject to-day demands more intelligent treatment than that of the supervision of schools. In no other department are the needs so apparent. Prudent directors elect as president of a bank or of a railroad a man with special knowledge of the work to be done, as well as a man with executive ability. Even an engineer on the Empire state express or on the steamer "City of Paris" is appointed because of his knowledge and experience in his calling. But supervisory officers for our schools are often chosen for other reasons than efficiency. Sometimes personal considerations or other causes enter too largely into the selection. Fitness often gives way to favoritism.

Men of unquestioned moral character, of unimpeachable integrity, of stainless purity, of sterling honesty, should be well-educated men. They should also be well-educated men. It is a strange reversal of position for an official to have power to decide upon a license, a certificate or diploma, who cannot pass the examination the teacher is obliged to take who receives it at his hands. It should also be considered part of the equipment of a supervisory officer that he be a gentleman, courteous in manner and obliging in disposition. Give us always men of pure morals, of sound education, of courteous manners for supervisory officers, and the state of New York will take a long step forward in educational interests.

The work of supervision is not only uplifting, it is also progressive. Every visitation of a school by supervisors of the right character, let their official title be what it may—superintendent, supervisor, inspector, commissioner—gives teachers new insight into the powers and possibilities of their work. It cheers and inspires, even when methods of teaching are criticised and faults exposed. True supervision is the teacher's strongest support, as it is also the pupil's greatest encouragement. Many a teacher has been saved to the profession and many a pupil has been brought back to honorable position in school and society by the timely help of proper supervision.

To fulfill its obligations to its schools, the state must not only provide elementary instruction for all the children, but must also provide secondary education for those who seek it. Pupils in the elementary course often acquire a thirst for knowledge which cannot be satisfied with that course alone. High school or academic instruction is as needful to them as elementary. Buildings and grounds as thoroughly adapted, and teachers as well qualified, and supervision as exact and uncompromising, must characterize secondary schools as surely as elementary. If the

[Stamp: New York State Common School System]