20 EDUCATION AS A DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT.

investigation in all the fields of knowledge. It maintains a Bureau of Educa-
tion for the collection of statistics and valuable information on all subjects per-
taining to education. This bureau, or department, as it was first called, was
established in 1866, by a law which was introduced and passed successfully,
urging the passage of that bill he made an eloquent speech, in which, refer-
ring to the common school, he said:

Mr. Speaker—If I were called upon to-day to point to that in my own
State of which I am most proud, I would not point to any of the flaming lines
of her military record, to the heroic men and brilliant officers she gave to this
contest; I would not point to any of her leading men of the past or the pre-
sent; but I would point to her common schools; I would point to the 18,000
school houses and the 700,000 pupils in the schools of Ohio. I would point to
the $3,000,000 she has paid for schools during the last year alone. This, in
my judgment, is the proper gauge by which to measure the progress and glory
of States.

The first duty of any system of education is to educate; so long as any
illiteracy remains in the State, the work cannot be said to be perfectly done.
To that point, then, teachers, let your energies be directed, with a view to
bringing our State to the very front rank in the cause of education, and while
you are engaged in that work you should not forget to inquire if the system
can be improved. It is necessary that the child should not only be educated
in what is termed book learning, but he should be instructed in some trade
or calling by which he can earn a living and not be left to make it by his
wife, which often means crime. The old plan of apprenticing boys out to a
trade has entirely ceased, and how American youths acquire any of the ordi-
nary trades is an enigma.

This changed condition is being met in Europe by the establishment of
industrial and technical schools, in which all the arts of manufacture are taught
behind in the most thorough and scientific manner. England found herself get-
ting behind in the industrial race, and has commenced the establishment of
similar schools. New England, not to be outdone, has set up a few, and New
York has herself getting behind in the most thorough and scientific manner.
England found herself getting behind in the industrial race, and has commenced
the establishment of similar schools. New England, not to be outdone, has set
up a few, and New York has commenced the establishment of similar schools.
Our State should no longer delay action in so important a matter. Our State
has great natural advantages and is destined now being an important factor in
the industrial contest. What she now needs is skilled artisans of a high order,
who can be produced only by the schools which I have named. These can best
be had, at first, by the voluntary action of the people in the larger towns, as-
sisted by State aid. Eventually the schools should become a part of the State
system, as have the academies and high schools.

Perhaps it is not chimerical to hope that at sometime our honorable Board
of Regents of the University may become a board of an actual university, hav-
ing a bodily existence and a soul—a university to which all of the youth from
our public schools who shall evince proper capabilities may go and receive
the highest education possible. Such an arrangement of schools and univer-