16 EDUCATION AS A DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT

of our Union, could never have made its record or attained its present high position, had not its founders had the wisdom to provide so perfect and enlightened a system of education.

We now come to the history of education in our own State. It had no such brilliant beginnings as in Massachusetts, and for two centuries our most advanced thinkers have been laboring to bring our people up to the acceptance of the principles which Massachusetts has held from the beginning.

In 1614, the first colony of Dutch traders landed on Manhattan Island with purposes of trade rather than of settlement, but they brought with them the Reformed Church and its adjunct, the parochial church schools of varying degrees of excellence which were maintained that time till the conquest by the English in 1664.

The English at this period gave little attention to general education, and the rivalry which soon arose between the English and the Dutch in the new settlements did much to weaken the new schools and finally broke them up entirely, substituting in many cases English schools under the control and patronage of the English Church. This condition continued without much variation till after the Revolution, and New York had changed from dependent colony to an independent State. During this time some private schools of a high order were opened and King's College, now Columbia, was chartered, but during the entire period of our colonial history no system of public education was either devised or inaugurated by the government or by the people.

Our present common school system may be said to have had its origin in the legislation of 1812. Previous to that date, in 1787, the Board of Regents of the University had been incorporated—a body sometimes considered more ornamental than useful, but which in reality has been of great value to the State in advancing the interests of higher education. In 1805 a sale of public lands was ordered, with the proceeds of which a permanent school fund was established. Thus New York was the second State in the Union to establish such a fund, Connecticut being the first.

The legislation of 1812 was the result of a commission appointed by Governor Tompkins to inquire into and "report a system for the establishment and organization of public schools." The results of their labors remain to the present day. The three main points of that system adopted were:

First—The division of the State into school districts of such convenient size as to enable all the children to be within easy distance of a school. The school district is the unit of power in the school system, as the township is in the civil government.

Second—The distribution of the school fund among the districts according to the number of children of school age.

Third—Making it obligatory on the towns to raise by taxation a sum equal to the amount they received from the distribution of the school fund.

[illegible]