The history of the certification of teachers in New York State illustrates the evolution which has taken place in the public's specifications for qualified teachers. Broadly speaking, there have been three stages or periods in this evolution. The first period may be called the helter-skelter period. It was yet in full force when Andrew S. Draper first became State Superintendent of Public Instruction in 1886. More than 90 per cent of the teachers in the state were then issued licenses by local authority, some on examination, some on promissory notes, some on the recommendation of trustees, and some he said with such pride as we can summon in our earlier history, on the recognized ability of the candidates to teach. Immediately after he took office in 1886, Superintendent Draper declared that the state might not go so far as to determine who should teach, but that it was clearly its business to determine who should not. Accordingly, minimum standards were established and a system of state-wide uniform examinations for teachers set up. This action ushered in the certification period in the examination period in the certification of teachers. At the time it was a progressive movement. It brought order out of chaos; it drove the money changers out of the temple; it signaled the authority and the responsibility of the state; and it compelled a study of the subject matter by the prospective teacher somewhere, somehow, even if it did not contemplate or assure training in method. That period continued up to the time of Unification. Professional progress was slow, in spite of the fine contri- bution made by the normal schools during that time. In his first annual report as State Commissioner of Education, issued in 1905, Doctor Draper de- clared with pride that, "More than fifty per cent of the teachers in the elementary schools had had either college training or professional training."

We have made splendid strides for- ward in determining whether or not we earn what we are educated and what we are paid. The security and satisfaction which we as teachers enjoy is the result of the social recognition of the value of our work. It is a matter of pride to be able to say that we render, in the degree of our calling, in the breadth of our training, in the enterprise of our personal institutions and ideals, and in our disposition to keep abreast of the advancing science of education.

Education and Training

In first consideration in determining the quality of the intreto art of teaching! The preparation here we have had for our specific training is the security and satisfaction which we as teachers enjoy. It is a matter of pride to be able to say that we render, in the degree of our calling, in the breadth of our training, in the enterprise of our personal institutions and ideals, and in our disposition to keep abreast of the advancing science of education.

[stamp: THE HOLLYER CORPORATION, ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA]