AN ADDRESS BY HON. WARNER MILLER. 15

unities almost the first work undertaken was to make some provision for the education of the children.

To the colony of Massachusetts must be awarded the high honor of having at the very beginning established universal education on so broad and sound a basis that the experiences of more than two centuries have produced no reasons for a change. She asserted the right and duty of the State to educate its children because of the benefit which would thereby come to the commonwealth. In the first law passed upon the subject, in 1842, she declared:

Forasmuch as the good education of children is of singular behoof and benefit to any commonwealth * * * it is ordered that the selectmen of every town * * * shall have a vigilant eye over their neighbors, to see, first, that none of them shall suffer so much barbarism in their families as not to endeavor to teach, by themselves or others, their children and apprentices so much learning as may enable them to read perfectly the English tongue and to get knowledge of the capital laws, upon penalty of twenty shillings for each neglect therein.

And further, the law provided that in case the parents continued neglectful of this duty, "The selectmen, with the help of two magistrates, shall take such children or apprentices from them, and place them with some masters for years, boys till they come to twenty-one and girls eighteen years of age complete."

The same year another law was passed, which provided that as soon as any community numbered fifty households, it should at once establish a school, and when a community numbered one hundred households it should establish in addition a grammar school, which, in the language of the statute, should "instruct youths so far as they may be fitted for the university."

These schools were to be supported by the parents or by a tax on the community, as the people might elect; neglect to establish the schools was punished by heavy fines.

The principles of her system may be summarized as follows: The duty of a State to educate; its right to tax for the support of schools; the right to compel attendance, or compulsory education; and, finally, the right to provide "the higher education."

Thus we see this system born and set up in a wilderness contained all that the most advanced theorist of to-day has ever dared to claim for education.

Such a system, put in operation and conducted by the men who were competent to originate it could not but produce great results. The other New England colonies, almost without exception, followed the lead of Massachusetts in matters of education.

The New England of to-day, with all its brilliant achievements in the arts of life, with the records of its statesmen and great scholars and poets, with its controlling influence in the formation of many of the present States