```
AN ADDRESS BY HON. WARNER MILLER. 19

First, we found it a purely voluntary affair, depending on the
government. If we met it as an institution of the church alone,
then for centuries almost monopolized it; then government began to
give it aid and encouragement; and finally we have seen it
firmly established on the broad basis of universal education, not
only in the rudiments of learning, but reaching into the higher
walks of science, philosophy and art.

We find this weakness of the centuries, which was begging a
little sustenance from parents, church or State, has grown to a
giant which has only to make its wants known to have them at once
supplied. It is no longer uncertain in its action or methods of
work; it has perfected a machinery so complete that it can
undertake the education of the whole people, and if the laws are
vigorously executed it will drive illiteracy from the State.

It has passed from the condition of an underling in the
government to the proud position of being one of the great
co-ordinate departments of the government itself. We must amend
our nomenclature and hereafter teach our children that government,
instead of being composed of three departments, viz. legislative,
judicial and executive, is composed of four departments—educational,
legislative, judicial and executive.

I place the educational department first because it has first
to do with the infant citizen and because it is more important than
any one of the others. The children under its charge constitute
more than one quarter of our population. It uses for its support
more of the public funds than any of the other departments.

Let us look at a few statistics in order that we may comprehend
the magnitude of this department. There are in the United States,
according to the last census, in round numbers, 15,000,000
children of school age, of which number 10,000,000 are enrolled in
the public schools and attend some portion of the time, the
average daily attendance being 6,000,000; there are 200,000
public schools, with 300,000 teachers, aside from the teachers and
pupils in the private schools.

The entire cost of this department has not been fully ascertained,
but it is estimated not to fall much, if any, short of $100,000,000
annually.

Have I overdrawn the picture, and do I exaggerate in claiming
the educational department to be the most important department of
government? You will see that the creation of a department of
education renders all teachers public office-holders. As the love
of office-holding seems to be almost universal, I beg of all
teachers to be satisfied with the offices you now hold, and not
go to Washington seeking others, for I warn you that such effort
will be fruitless.

Thus far I have spoken of the relations of education and the
State government. The Federal government has never assumed any
direct charge of education in the States, but it has given
liberally of the public lands for the support of schools, and it
has expended large sums of money in aid of scientific
```