```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 37

and concentration of mind; you have heard his cigarette cough, you have observed how from a bright promising boy he has at length tarried with the laggards of his class, then joined the truants and finally disappeared, a broken down wreck, perhaps before he was fifteen years of age, character, health and brain and will power gone, a worse than wreck, a cigarette fiend.

"Ill habits gather by unseen degrees, As brooks to the river run, rivers to the seas."

Deceit and dishonesty accompany the indulgence of the vice for sensible parents will not supply money with which to purchase such vapor damnation; and the natural result is that the boy whose cigarette appetite is well formed generally has to steal to gratify it. I do not mean to say that the picture I have drawn applies to every boy who inhales cigarettes, but I do say without fear of contradiction, that it is a picture of no exaggerated details of thousands of boys throughout the country who are enslaved by this wretched habit. How shall we fight this vice that is so interfering with the development of manliness, good health and good character in our boys? Many of the states have passed stringent laws prohibiting both the sale and use of cigarettes by boys under sixteen, but alas, like many of our laws they seem to be made only to be broken.

It occurred to some of us down in that Nazareth, out of which some of you think no good can come, that the only way to reach the evil was to create a sentiment against it among the boys themselves, start a moral or ethical movement going among them and let them work out their own salvation. You teachers of New York, know whether so far it has been a success or not. In the city of New York we have nearly 40,000 boys of all races, religious beliefs and previous conditions and degrees of servitude to the cigarette, who have responded to the appeal that has been made to their young manhood and have declared their unwillingness to endanger their usefulness as citizens by indulging such a vicious habit longer. It was my privilege before school closed to address over 5,000 of our New York school boys in a single week, in championing this cause. I reminded them of their obligations to the state, in return for her generosity in giving them free education to be able to contribute to the commonweal, sound bodies, sound minds and manly character. I do not believe that a more responsive set of boys exist on the face of the earth than our New York school boys. Do you remember how your eyes dimmed as you saw regiment after regiment of them march down Fifth Avenue during the Columbian celebration, and do you remember how you consecrated yourselves anew to the great cause which had for its object, making good citizens of the thousands upon thousands who marched in solid phalanx before your eyes? Let the school boys of our state get hold of an impulse that goes for better living, better work and higher character, and who can tell what such a moral force shall accomplish? Surely a good impulse is the best thing that a boy or a man can get out of an education

And so we formed the anti-cigarette leagues, and they extended over all the country. Each league has its president, secretary and council, and every member has pledged himself to abstain from indulging in this vice and to use his influence in preventing others from practicing it. Each
```