```plaintext
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

these schools. We hope that before long the system may be so modified
that executive ability, the power to organize and control, may receive
much consideration in the granting of certificates, and that so simple a
subject of current topics will not have nearly the same weight as the
study of English in deciding who is entitled to a certificate. The system
has been of greater benefit to the union schools, for boards of education
have been quick to understand that the best teachers are first born and
then made. Consequently they will not employ teachers with the lowest
grade certificates, and every novice must find a place in the rural
schools. Only in exceptional cases will the trained teacher be found in
sparsely settled communities. If the wages were the same as in the
villages they would not remain outside, since so small a school allows no
opportunity for growth to those whose training has fitted them to handle
a larger number of pupils.

The law makes possible for the rural school a good building. However
the first requisite of a district school is not a good building; nor a well
trained teacher; nor skillful supervision; but children, and plenty of
them. We can no more have successful schools, measured by the child's
interests, with a small number of pupils than we can have live churches
without members. The harmony of elements must be complete. When all
over the state, school houses were located at points convenient for the
congregation of forty, seventy, or one hundred children, and the old
school master reigned supreme, the building was not the first
consideration. Neither did skillful supervision nor a well trained teacher
enter largely into the composition. In that school however thorough drill
was given in a few subjects. By the force of numbers, interest and
enthusiasm were aroused. A class of men having within them the elements
of self education was the result. A few of those men yet remain, honored,
respected and sought after for their advice. When they die their places
are not so well filled by men trained in the same school a generation
later. The schools must be large enough so that habits of thoroughness,
perseverence, concentration, and enthusiasm are inspired by association
in class work.

If the aim of school work is to interest, discipline, and inspire; not
chiefly to increase knowledge, but to give the power to gain knowledge;
to give the power of independent thinking; to lay the foundation for self
education; to learn vital principles and not statistical information;
things which come in large degree through association; then, a system of
schools which does not fit and must be cast aside. A generous
appropriation of money is needed to secure small results for a small
number of children. Taxing the people to the extent of their ability to
pay will hardly furnish the means to make the present district system
succeed. The state of New York is no longer rich enough to maintain the
system, but must provide means by which the money shall be more wisely
expended.

The kindergarten has come to stay. Manual training is no longer
an experiment. The rural community, as much as any, needs it. The
farmer is not only a ploughman, but a machinist, a blacksmith and a
carpenter. The course of study of the future will need to furnish, besides
the intellectual drill, aids to make the work of the rural school and the
needs of the farming community parallel. There
```