14 EDUCATION AS A DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT.

As was to have been expected, the new religion slowly but surely brought a great change in the then existing systems of Greek and Roman education. It finally took almost exclusive control of all education, and held it for centuries, and to-day it is one of the most powerful factors in the educational system of to-day.

The early fathers of the church—Origen in the East and Augustine in the West—established famous schools, in which were taught not only theology and ecclesiastical lore, but all the known sciences and philosophies of their day.

When the Roman empire, weakened by its own licentiousness and corruption, went down under the onmarching of the hordes of northern barbarians, Christianity took education and hid it in the monasteries, and there carefully guarded it for ages, until finally the degenerate devotees of religion were eager to hold it, forever depriving the masses of any participation in its blessings. For a long time it seemed as though these unworthy guardians might be successful and education would be banished from among men and confined alone to the cloister, until God raised up that knightly man, Luther, who fearlessly attacked the stronghold and brought of the triumph.

To Martin Luther more than any other man we owe the public school system of to-day.

The Reformation could not proceed without education among the masses. The personal religion preached by the Reformers required intelligence in the converts; therefore the Reformed Church at once established schools, and it also required and enforced the attendance of the children of its membership. Luther labored and wrote much in behalf of free public education. His address to the German towns of 1524 contains among other things an unanswerable argument for compulsory education; he says: "If a State in time of war more than ever has it still not its duty, to compel its citizens to take up the sword and the musket, has it not still more power, and is it not its duty, to compel its citizens to instruct their children, since we are engaged in a more serious warfare, waged with the Spirit of Evil which rages in our midst, seeking to depopulate the State of its virtuous ones? It is my desire above all things else, that every child should go to school or be sent there by a magistrate."

He did not live to see the consummation of his wish, but if he could return to his loved Germany-to-day he would find that his wish had not only been enacted into law, but into law which is rigorously enforced.

We will not delay longer with the records of the educations of ancient or foreign peoples, but come at once to the consideration of the beginnings and the growth of education in our own country.

The early colonists were composed largely of the converts of the Reformation, both in Europe and in England, who came to this country fully imbued with Luther's ideas of the necessity of universal education, both in the interests of the Church and State; hence we find that among the new communities formed in this country, the establishment of schools was one of the first acts of the selectmen or freeholders, who were the trustees of the district common school. [stamp: New York State Common School]