Page 32

I feel confident that the time will be short in which the authorities in any school will be able to allow 50 or 60 or 70 children to be herded together under one teacher. I greatly err the great and beneficial work of public education, and unless the intelligent and a helpful impulse will receive an intelligent and a helpful impulse.

March—"El Capitan"...........................Sousa.
Orchestra.

Mr. Blodgett moved that the secretary be instructed to cast ballot for the nominations, except for assistant treasurer. Motion seconded and carried. Ticket declared elected. The inspectors of election reported Abram Fischlowitz elected treasurer.

THURSDAY EVENING, JULY 1, 8 O'CLOCK

Assembly—Bugle and drum corps, grammar school No. 66
George Gorman, drum major.

Ball drill.—Pupils of female department, grammar school No. 96. Under the direction of Dr. M. Augusta Requa, supervisor of physical training.

First sergeant's call—Drum corps.

Educational gymnastics.—Boys from grammar school Nos. 6, 18, and 96.

(a) Free exercises.
(b) Swimming drill.
(c) Hurdling.
(d) Short contest.
(e) Postures.

Adjutant's call—Drum corps.

Aesthetic drill.—Girls from female department, grammar school No. 76.

Dismissal—"G. D." Drum corps.*

THE SCHOOLS AND THE STATE

CHARLES R. SKINNER, State Superintendent of Public Instruction

Mr. President, Teachers and Friends.—It is our pleasant privilege to meet in the metropolis of the western continent, in what will soon be the second largest city of the world.

Little more than a century ago the last soldier trod these streets, till then under the British flag which he served. The phenomenal growth in arts, commerce, manufactures, population, the power and wealth of that colonial town is one of the greatest marvels of the age. From the day in 1633 that Adam Roelandon,

[illegible]

[stamp: New York State Common School System]

---

[Page 33]

the first schoolmaster, landed with Wouter Van Twiller, the
director-general, thus antedating two years the first school in
Massachusetts; from the signing by Governor Clinton of the
first act of the legislature for the establishment of common
schools, New York has marched in the front in educational
progress, and to-day occupies a commanding position. To be first is
not the ambition of New York, but to be the best. To give every
child an education that shall swing wide the doors of future use-
fulness and success, and admit to the highest honors and the
purest life — this New York is resolved to do.

It is appropriate that the educators of our state should assem-
ble in this fair city, where new conditions are presenting to this
people the greatest educational problem of our day. The solution
of this problem, the adaptation of these new conditions to the
great municipality that is to be, calls for discriminating wisdom
of the highest character. Our hope is as strong as our faith
that the problem will be speedily solved, and that a school
system will be established here efficient in its working, satisfac-
tory in its results, in its mightiness in extent and in its triumphs —
a magnificent example to great cities and nations, and the pride
of the educational world.

It is a lesson worth learning to note the provisions made here
for education and to contrast them with those of our rural
schools. Provision for the expenditure of twelve millions of dollars
for school buildings! Nearly as much as there was paid last year
throughout the state for teachers' salaries. It gives a higher idea
of how money can be used, to note the great buildings in
which the poorest child may be trained for a useful life, if one
will keep in mind the forlorn country schoolhouse, so bare, so un-
inviting, sometimes so repulsive, without and within.

It is interesting to compare the schools of this great city with
their 354,566 pupils and 7,693 teachers with some of the schools
in our rural communities. In this city, our friends will show us
a single school, which has a village population in itself, with
3,420 pupils and 71 teachers, more pupils and more teachers
than any village in the state can count, and more than com-
prise the school systems in twenty of our interior cities. Contrast
this great grammar school with the rural schools with one, two
or three pupils and one teacher — with the teacher often waiting
for the one pupil to appear. Contrast the millions expended upon
the schools of this city with the country district, which maintains
its school, pays its teacher and buys its supplies with the teachers'
quota of $10 mentioned by the state. Sometimes a serious
problem is presented in determining what disposition shall be
made of the surplus on hand at the close of the

[stamp: New York State Common School System]