```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 57

is unquestionably a demand for the teaching of the elements of agriculture, but the schools are not better equipped for doing it than for teaching the elements of sociology. The school gardens of Belgium, Germany, and France furnish models for the work of our schools for the future.

The requirements of the child, of the patron, of the taxpayer, and of the state, are not met in the rural school. What is the remedy? To maintain the present number of districts, and at the same time to effect a cure, is not possible. A combination of districts is the first step toward the remedy. This combination ought to be so extensive that enough pupils would be brought together so that in every class will be felt "the force and enthusiasm of numbers." When children reside more than a walking distance from the school, to provide means for conveying them to and from the same, as has been done in Massachusetts for twenty years, is the second step. Formerly the school was taken to children; now we can gain much, and lose nothing, by taking the children to the school. Any parent, who considers the welfare of the child of paramount importance, will prefer to have the child carried two or four miles to a well equipped school than to watch the loss of time and opportunity and the formation of bad habits of work in a school of five or ten pupils in sight of home. The state can better afford to pay out half the cost for transportation than to pay a quota for the accomplishment of so little for the child. I am convinced that it is doing business without much regard for business principles when the state allows schools with less than ten pupils to exist and furnishes state aid. If the conditions are made favorable as good work will be done in the rural as in the graded schools.

People of our state are everywhere interested in the education of its youth. The cry is often raised that we need a revival of interest. A revival of confidence is much more needed. A father whose boy is justly spanked may, by means of a well laid scheme, destroy the influence of a teacher there and forever.

A compulsory township system must come in time. The outlook is toward it. No person who considers affairs fairly, and without prejudice, the condition of affairs can honestly be opposed to a change along the lines indicated, however radical it may seem. The publications relating to the township system and its practical workings must convince any man who has not a selfish interest. An optional law would be speedily adopted by many towns. An act to consolidate districts having small schools and refusing state aid to the smallest districts as districts would hasten the arrival of the system in full.

The success which the system presages in the New England states, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, and in several localities of our own state which has adopted it voluntarily is all the argument needed when added to the condition of our rural schools. Let every school official, who has to do with the rural schools, catch something of the inspiration which actuated Horace Mann and so transmit it that very soon there may be found in the legislature a man who will stand up for the township system as did Jedediah Peck for the common school system.

From the report of the committee of school commissioners I quote the following :
```

[stamp: STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION]