DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

52

principle of duty in every detail connected with the work of the department. I found that by adhering to that principle under all circumstances my work was simplified, and difficulties and obstacles were easily removed. The work of public instruction has gone on steadily and uninterruptedly, and we have the gratification of having made considerable progress during the past two years. But good will, zeal and industry would count little on the part of the superintendent without the hearty co-operation of the teachers. I have found such co-operation cheerfully and liberally given, and I feel bound by ties of gratitude to all the teachers for their valuable share contributed towards the grand result. They have been the main element in the extension and ornamentation of the stately temple of public instruction which is now the admiration of the world. It is with great pleasure that I congratulate you on the splendid display made by our common schools at the Columbian Exposition last year. The appeal of the department of public instruction to commissioners, superintendents and principals to make a supreme effort to have the grand school system of the empire state fully represented at Chicago met with a prompt, generous response. Were it not for the combined efforts of the department, of school officials and of teachers generally, one of the most attractive and instructive exhibits of New York would have been missing.

At a late day, and upon the earnest solicitation of the late Senator McNaughton, whose zeal, public spirit and excellent judgment contributed the largest share to the success of New York at the World's Fair, the department of public instruction consented to bring about the best attainable educational exhibit of the state. I am glad of this opportunity to thank you all for your hearty co-operation in this work. The schools of New York were well represented and called forth the most flattering commendations from the distinguished educators from all countries who were at Chicago. The official recognition of their worth by the World's Fair commissioners was but the endorsement of the opinions so freely expressed at the exposition by all who took the trouble to examine the history and details of our common school system. The success of our school exhibit was all the greater as it did not receive any special favors from the New York commissioners, nor was there any combined official effort made to give our common schools the prominence they deserved. To Chief Executive Officer McNaughton and his distinguished successor, Hon. John Foley, of Saratoga, our thanks are principally due for their efforts to do full justice to the exhibit of our common school system.

Our common school system triumphed over all obstacles at Chicago as it has in the past at home, and it will overcome all obstacles in the future as long as it musters into its service such loyal and efficient men and women

WEDNESDAY MORNING, JULY 11.

The meeting was declared open at 9:40, the president in the chair. After some discussion of a motion to instruct the secretary to cast a

[stamp: New York State Department of Public Instruction]