IV. Local Ability to Finance Schools

The Commission has the responsibility to determine the ability of the localities to finance their own school construction and to determine whether State assistance is necessary to assure that schools can be constructed when and where they are needed.

To this end, the Commission again has reviewed the financial resources of the cities and other school districts and has drawn these conclusions:

City School Districts

Under the amendment to the Constitutional debt limitation which became effective January 1, 1952, the school districts in cities under 125,000 population and all of the larger cities upstate have borrowing power sufficient to finance at least during the next four years the schools which they will have to construct.

Partly as a result of the same amendment, New York City will be able to finance within its debt limit a $200 million school building program during the next four years. Such a program would double the normal school replacement and modernization needs of the City. If effectively used, this allocation of $50 million annually for schools during that period would enable the City to make rapid progress toward elimination of necessary school construction and modernization.

Approximately $40 million of this annual total would provide 15 to 20 new schools each year to relieve overcrowding or to replace buildings that are not worth modernizing. With the balance of about $10 million, the City could modernize 15 to 25 additional schools each year.

To accomplish successfully a program of this scope, the City Board of Education, in the opinion of the Commission, must improve its organization and procedures as suggested in the recommendations for local action summarized in Section V of this report.

Other School Districts

During 1950 and 1951, the State provided for advances of money to financially hard pressed school districts to help them with debt service on emergency school construction. Under certain conditions prescribed by Section 3603-c of the Education Law, a school district is eligible for this type of assistance when its local tax rate for approved debt service goes above $7 on $1,000 full valuation of local real property.

Continuation of the State's emergency advance program for another year will enable all of the non-city school districts to finance school construction which will be necessary in that period without an excessive local tax burden.

[stamp: New York State Education Department]