```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 55

last, and at all times, for the child. A school with but one pupil in a class is but little more than a school with one pupil. If class work is of fundamental importance to the child then the rural school of my definition is not a success. When I have heard it said in public addresses that the schools of the empire state were second to none, it has seemed to me that the statement should be qualified by saying that one-half of them are the best, and that the other half are poorer than any schools should be. The boy who was jealous of boy's rights stated a parallel case when he said:

"Perhaps that text the preacher quotes sometimes, 'train up a child.' Means only train the little girls, and let the boys run wild."

In one of the towns of my district nine of the eleven schools had in 1893, a total average daily attendance of seventy-eight—barely enough for the maintenance of three schools. To the nine schools the state paid $914.02 and the districts raised by tax $1315.42, making the cost per pupil $28.50. In several of the schools inexperienced and untrained teachers were employed, the attendance was irregular, and a lack of interest prevailed. If the statement of Dr. E. C. Hewett when he says: "Nothing can be furnished the child to aid in his education except environment," be worthy of acceptance, the school and number of pupils ought not to have less than twenty-five in regular attendance. When nine teachers are employed to do work which three could better do, are not the people extravagant and wasteful? Is not the state wasteful of the people's money in paying nine quotas when three would answer a better purpose? What is true of this township is true of hundreds of others. There is, in sight of the state capitol, a commissioner district employing fifty-five teachers and maintaining fifty-five schools in which the average daily attendance for the year 1892-3, was ten pupils per teacher. What a vast opportunity this condition affords for spoiling bright pupils and promising teachers!

The assessed property of rural districts is taxed at all rates from one and nine-tenth to forty-four and one-tenth mills. In this inequality and injustice we approach the practical results of anarchy. However, some communities which were liberal in supporting the school when it numbered several times as many pupils as at present, still consider the cost of secondary matter, and on property which pays but a small per cent on the investment, levy taxes at rates much higher than that of a neighboring village or city. Again, many districts pay heavy taxes on property assessed at nearly its full value in the schools of which the children learn but little of the three R's. The state is the custodian of the educational interests and the time is at hand when the tenant farmer should demand that his dollar shall yield as large returns in the education of his boy as does the dollar of his brother who is a mechanic in a neighboring village. The state will not have done its duty until this has been accomplished.

The more this question is studied the more it seems to me that the best part of the rural school system is the teacher. The state or community exacts of her no special preparation. By means of the institutes and associations she becomes interested, where interest is possible, in her work. The literature of the profession is read quite extensively. The fact that they are able to pass with high standings in examination indicates a fair knowledge of subject matter. The uniform examinations have done much for
```