[Page 101]

tion was asked for outside of these schools. It was assumed that an effort to "see ourselves as others see us" would not be without profitable results.

Accordingly many letters asking for opinions were addressed to several classes of educational workers, who, because of their association with the graduates of normal schools, or because of their training in such schools, should be able to speak with some authority. All were urged to be frank, and were assured that their names would not be used in connection with their replies.

Those who have taught in teachers' institutes were asked for their estimate of the product of the State normal schools, from the character of institutes held in the vicinity of such schools and from the "speech of the people." Their replies were uniformly very favorable to the normal schools.

These educators were also asked to state in what way the normal schools could be made more valuable to the State. The following extract taken from one of the letters contains or implies the most important suggestions received:

"I think it is safe to say that the work of the schools would be improved if they would attempt less. The teachers and the students are required to do too many things and work too many hours. The schools should be models in the quality of work done and in the manner of doing it. I think all professional instruction had better be deferred until the senior year."

Some called attention to the immaturity of the students in these schools, and the effect of an unlimited license upon the graduates. About forty school commissioners in different parts of the State were interviewed by letter, and most of them replied to all my questions.

The first question was: How does the work of the normal school graduates in your district compare with that of the other teachers? In answer to this question all stated that the work was superior, some of them adding "other things being equal," "generally," "beyond all comparison," etc.

The next question was: What is the most general weakness of normal graduates that comes to your notice? In reply to this question we find "too much reliance on methods," "lack of knowledge" (one mentioning arithmetic), "lack of adaptability."

What strong points, if any, do you find common? brought various replies. A large majority mentioned preparation of lessons and the same number said "definite aim," and "broad view of the work," and "a professional spirit."

To what should the normal schools give more attention? In reply to this question the following points were emphasized: "More practice in school management and organization," "a closer relation [stamp: New York State Common School System]"

[illegible]