```plaintext
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

names of the active school men of the day appear in the roll of the convention, but we examine it in vain for the name of a woman. Committees were appointed as follows, viz.: On the qualifications of teachers; on the studies and exercises proper for common schools; on appointing one or more agents for carrying into effect the objects of the convention; on the construction and furnishing of school-rooms; on the school law of the State.

The question as to whether the State should establish normal schools or utilize the academies for educating teachers, was as hot then as it ever has been since. The convention, for obvious reasons, declared in favor of utilizing the existing schools.

The committee on "studies and exercises in the schools," reported that the following studies should be pursued, viz.: Reading, writing, spelling, mental and practical arithmetic, geography, English grammar, composition, a method of keeping accounts, brief systems of political economy, and some of the simpler parts of the natural sciences." The committee observe that they are aware that their list is too large to be pursued in a single school, especially if the number of pupils is large. They urge by way of a solution of the difficulty, that one teacher should never have charge of more than thirty or forty pupils, and that where the school is larger than this, grading should be resorted to.

The committee urge among other things, that the schools should "call into action the intellectual powers of the pupils, and teach them by independent investigation, to arrive at conclusions for themselves, which shall be according to truth;" that pupils "should not waste time in loading the memory with what is not understood;" that "they should not be suffered to pronounce words without a knowledge of their meaning;" that in arithmetic pupils "may derive much valuable improvement by the help of sensible objects, without being burdened with rules above their comprehension."

This convention sixty years ago, also faced the text-book question, but precipitately surrendered in its presence, and contented itself with saying that while the multiplicity of text-books was a great evil, still they thought it unwise for them to enter a field which would require them to discriminate, and with apparent solemnity, expressed the belief that "if a remedy shall be found out for the other defects in the system of common school instruction, the text-book evil will gradually disappear."

To all of this the convention agreed. It also provided for a State agent to go about, hold meetings, arouse the people, encourage teachers, organize lyceums, etc.

The convention seems to have been in something of a fog concerning the improvement of school-rooms. It declared that "school-houses are too small, the ceilings too low, the windows placed quite too near the floor, and that too little regard is paid to the ventilation of the rooms." But, in its opinion, the methods of remedying these defects were "too plain to require explanation." Then it immediately proceeded to explain and suggest [illegible].
```