A PAPER BY ADDISON M. BROWN. 33

result proves their unfitness for the care of our future citizens, our statesmen, and our rulers. They fail to note that the true teacher is always reading, thinking or acting for his school. They do nothing in the department of composition to cultivate. They have not yet learned that education is the development of power, or that the law of development is through practice. If they can purchase submission to their rules by sugar plums, money, or some desired indulgence, they think that they have accomplished all that is necessary.

Particular attention is called to this unqualified, disinterested class, who, without tact, taste, skill or judgment for the responsibilities of the position, and see to it that the trustees, who are freeholders and trustees of the district, are invested with a power by the trustee that would carry disaster and financial ruin to any business interest in the land. By hiring this class of teachers he may save a quarter or a half cent on each hundred dollars of the assessed valuation of the district.

Two classes are represented in this moral robbery: those who will teach for three or four dollars per week, and the trustees who seek to reduce the wages. They have halved and quartered and squeezed the salary till it is scarcely sufficient to keep the soul and body on familiar terms. Each succeeding trustee annually demonstrates his ability to shipwreck the hopes of his constituents on the same rock that wrecked his predecessor, viz., a disinclination to pay fair wages for a fair quality of work. He cares little for the quality of the work provided it does not cost much. He defends himself by the standing excuse, "Our school is not large; our children are small." "Most anybody can teach our school." He agrees to pay enough, however, to continue the farce and cheat the State of the "public money."

This indifference to results encourages the poor teacher in his poor work. He has seen the repeated failures of his rivals to secure a school at living rates. He chuckles with delight at the balance of power he holds and his ability to wield it successfully through the grasping propensities of the trustee. What cares he for institutes, associations or their kindred advantages, so long as his bread and butter is not cut off?

Mary Allen West has truly said that "Country schools need the very best teachers; men and women of broad culture, whose influence is not bounded by the school-room walls, but extends to every home in the district." In the normal and other high schools, the services of the best teachers are secured to conduct the work. There is no reason why it should not be so in the common schools.

J. G. Holland says: "I believe that a school in order to be a good one should be one that will fit men and women in the best way for the humble positions that the great mass of them must necessarily follow."

Thomas Dick says: "It requires more care and attention, more experience and sagacity and a more intimate acquaintance with the principles of human nature to direct the opening intellect in its first excursions in the path

[stamp: New York State Common School System]