```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 59

COMMISSIONER ELWOOD: Said his paper dealt particularly with the improvement of the rural schools and the simple solution of the problem of getting the children to school.

PRINCIPAL ELIJAH A. HOWLAND: I was much interested in the commissioner's paper. I felt particularly interested because I am a taxpayer myself in a district in the country where I found, as I presided at a meeting, the report of the average attendance of three for the whole year. This, of course, was away back among the hills.

Some years ago I was a pupil myself in a little school house twenty feet square in the northerly part of Massachusetts. The great ambition of the boys was, when the noon hour came was to see who would jump over the stove in going out and in coming back we jumped the other way.

I happened some few years ago to be traveling in that same place and there I found a large and well appointed school with all kinds of apparatus for physical instruction and upon inquiry I found that there they had concentrated all the districts schools and had spent the money on the transportation of children to this one school. If the same plan could be adopted in this state it would be attended by very beneficial results.

Institute conductor Downing offered the following resolution:

Since notwithstanding all the pleasure of this meeting we sorely miss the courteous and genial presence of one who loved all and was beloved by all the members of this association, our lamented councillor and friend, Thomas F. Donnelly: Be it resolved that while we sincerely grieve over his untimely death and mourn his loss we cherish found memories of him as the years go by.

The amendment to article VIII of the constitution was then taken from the table and read by the secretary.

SUPERINTENDENT BLODETT of Syracuse: As I stated yesterday when I gave notice of this motion, at Syracuse forty-nine years ago the organization of this association was formed. Next year will then bring it to its fiftieth anniversary and it has been in my mind and that of others that it would be a good time for the association to go to Syracuse. We want the child to come home next year. We will give it a cordial and hearty welcome. The motion was seconded and carried unanimously.

Miss Anna K. Eggleston late of the Buffalo Normal school and at present of the institute faculty of the department of public instruction was introduced.

MISS EGGLESTON'S PAPER.

SPONTANEITY IN SCHOOL WORK.

It was in a little garden in a great unworked world that the first command to labor sounded forth, and for ages men earned their bread by the sweat of their brow. The thorns and the thistles which were promised came, but were not able to choke entirely the divine spirit in the worker. Through the tilling of fields, the heaving of stones, and building of temples it lived, ever expressing itself—sometimes in lament and longings, sometimes in hope and aspirations—always in work.

Later, when the workers were ready for it, came the new command toward which the old had been leading "Man shall not live by bread alone,"
```