[Page 40]

office and refused the reward his age, his services, his great abilities justly entitled him to receive.

At Riverside, beneath a monument reared by loving admirers, sleeps the great soldier whose brilliant generalship contributed so largely to give us peace with honor. Manding will contribute so largely to give us peace with honor. We never will honor on pedestals too lofty for our love and praise. Give them grandly and nobly their due. Then turn and contrast the undistinguished place where lie the ashes of the first schoolmaster of New York to teachers and educational workers during the century.

The schoolchildren of Massachusetts have told the story of their love in the monument commemorating the services of Horace Mann. Let the state of New York express its gratitude in suitable school buildings and grounds for the children, in generous salaries to teachers and supervisory officers, and it will build a monument worthy of its name and fame.

The state has a right to demand from the schools that children be trained first of all to thorough mastery of the studies in the elementary course. Less than this the state ought not to expect from the schools. Every pupil in every school in the state of New York ought to be required to master that course before school life is over. Whatever else may be had by the pupil, that course must be mastered, without exception of a pupil or omission of a study. With elementary studies as the foundation, pupils may go on ward and upward in their education, but the foundation in every instance must be laid strongly, honestly, thoroughly.

But with these studies should be taught courtesy of manner, politeness of speech, refinement of thought and genuine culture of life. The state has a right to expect also that pupils, from the beginning of their course, be imbued with the spirit of truth and purity, with the love of truth and purity, with integrity of thought and action. Education to be successful can never be one-sided. Children cannot be trained physically and mentally with no moral and spiritual culture without loss to themselves, to parents and to the state.

While it is never the province of the state to teach religious truth after the distinctive tenets of any form or belief, it emphatically is the duty of the state to see that children are taught the highest and purest morality. Inasmuch as this is a Christian commonwealth, the state must demand that the schools inculcate Christian morality.

Has not the state also a right to demand that colleges and universities shall use their privileges and opportunities that students may be successful?

[illegible]