A PAPER BY ADDISON M. BROWN. 35

To raise the standard of education, every teacher should attend the institutions. It should be made possible for every committee to pass the examinations. It should be made possible for every committee to pass the examinations and to discard from examination those teachers who will not avail themselves of this State bounty. We should have no certificates for a longer period than one year, unless with a proviso that should compel attendance upon the annual instruction furnished by the State. This would hold all teachers to a uniform and systematic course in the school-room; it would enable all to possess of every modern improvement in teaching, while those periodic teachers who had rusted out by inaction would be discarded entirely.

The physician who passes through a prolonged hospital practice in preparing himself for the emergencies of his profession, finds the same classes of disease that he would in any other place, but the teacher who chafes under the restraint of a training school will not find the same condition in the school-room that his experimental class of grown-up pupils presents. He finds conditions not anticipated; his fine-spun theories are at fault; they will not work and he fails. The sympathizing friend says: "He had a bad school, a bad place." Why does he not charge the result where it belongs? He was not adapted to the work and he made bad work of it, as hundreds of other unqualified teachers have done. Adaptation is quite as necessary as education.

Educational success requires a class of teachers who will labor for the good of the cause in which they are engaged; who are willing to sacrifice something for their advancement; who have some developed characteristic of time and drawing their pay; who will lead the way and define the results to be reached; who will put their own shoulder to the wheel before asking assistance from another; those who will take an interest in their work.

The teacher's work should be conducted on a professional and scientific scale, and not left to the variable chance of temporary circumstances; in other words, he must be prepared for his work and fitted for his place. Whatever may be said of "normal training institutes," the practical part of teaching can come in no other way than in direct contact with the realities which the children in the school-room disclose. If the present commissioners' system require some changes that will at least keep abreast of the times, (1) The number of school commissioners should be doubled; (2) the system should be so revised as to give them local jurisdiction over the means employed by the State for the improvement of the teachers. Of the 30,669 teachers in the State by the report of the Commissioner of Education for the years 1878-9, only 14,569 attended the institutes. Were the 16,100 who did not attend as well qualified to do good work as the others were? Could they by any possible means do as good work?

Our State Teachers' Association has wisely advocated the organization of County Teachers' Associations. There is no interest known to the commercial, [stamp: New York State Common School System]