N. Y. S. Teachers' Association

The State Superintendent of Common Schools also, in his report to the Legislature in 1831, strongly recommended the academies of the State as the best institutions to fit persons for teaching. In their report of 1832 the Regents reiterated their opinion as to the fitness of these institutions for this work. These institutions had convenient buildings, in some cases large endowments, valuable libraries and scientific apparatus and courses of study well organized. By engraving on the courses of study in departments of studies in the principles of teaching, those who were preparing to teach would enjoy the benefits of all the branches which enter into the ordinary academic courses as well as instruction in professional studies. This they declared was the most desirable method of preparing teachers, from every point of view. In other words they preferred normal departments in academies to normal schools proper. All educators in the State did not agree with them, however, for the experience of those led some to believe that teachers require a different kind of instruction from that which other students receive. This opinion found expression right among the very teachers who were at work in the academies that were doing this work.

As a result of the recommendation of the Regents a law was passed in 1834 to provide for the education of teachers for the common schools. By the terms of this law the revenue of the literature fund was to be distributed by the Regents, if they deemed it expedient, to the academies of the State subject to their supervision, or a part of them, provided that the trustees of such academies should cause this money to be expended in educating teachers of common schools in such manner as the Regents should prescribe.

A committee of three was at once appointed by the Regents to prepare and report a plan for carrying the provisions of this act into effect. In January, 1835, the committee reported a plan "For the better education of teachers of the common schools." It would be interesting to give this report in full, did time permit. It emphasized the value of professional training; it recommended that one academy in each senatorial district, eight in all, be selected for this work; that $300 be appropriated to each academy for apparatus, etc., and that each receive $300 annually for the support of a suitable instructor. The committee also recommended a course of study, including the common branches, some higher mathematics, the natural sciences, civics, history of the United States, moral and intellectual philosophy and principles of teaching, and the application of these principles by the students during their course. Students completing a part of the course were to receive a certificate signed by the principal of the school, stating the subjects they were thought qualified to teach.

This report was accepted, and an ordinance was passed establishing normal departments in certain academies designated, providing the trustees of the institutions would accept the trust on the conditions named. They did accept the schools, and thus the embryo normal schools were started in this State. That they were successful seems to be inferred from the fact that in 1839, already mentioned, Clinton, of New York, already mentioned, Clinton, of New York, had opened a school in America was one of the normal schools of that State. The school was organized under the auspices of the Board of Regents, with Cyrus Pierce as principal. The purpose of the school was to prepare good citizens and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and patriot, the late Hon. Daniel Webster, and in a place hallowed by the memory of the great statesman and