AN ADDRESS BY HON. WARNER MILLER. 17

These fundamental principles have never been lost sight of in any legislation since 1812 which has taken place in the machinery of our school systems. We have largely increased general State taxation for the support of schools. We have established normal schools for the instruction of teachers and prohibited any person from exercising the duties of the office of teacher without a proper certificate of examination. In short, the State has assumed absolute control and supervision of the system through the State Superintendent and the Commissioners in the districts and the Board of Regents. But the great advance which has been made in education in this State during the past quarter of a century is due to the adoption of additional fundamental principles. These are:

First—Making the schools free to all and supporting them by taxation alone.

Second—Adding the higher education to that of the common schools.

Third, and more important than either—Making education up to the age of fourteen compulsory.

The first of these, "free schools," was attained only after a long struggle, lasting from 1849 to 1867; it is now so thoroughly approved by the people that no public man will ever venture to propose its change or repeal.

The enlargement of the common school system by the addition of the higher education—or "the establishment of schools which should fit youth for the University," as the early Massachusetts law termed it—and providing for its support by taxation, was the subject of a long discussion between the friends and opponents of the idea; it was finally settled in favor of the enlargement by the passage of the Union School Act, which permits incorporated villages to organize graded schools, with academic departments connected therewith, in which the range of studies is only limited by the judgment of the school board.

I think it is not too much to claim that the establishment of these graded schools has contributed more to the advancement and elevation of education than any other cause now operating.

They have supplanted the weak and inefficient academies which were scattered over our State, and to-day academies and private schools of the first order of excellence only can maintain themselves. They have brought the best education within reach of nearly all the children of the State, without regard to the poverty or wealth of the parents; they have opened fountains of intelligence in every community, thereby arousing the dormant energies and capabilities of thousands of children who otherwise never would have been stimulated to action or achievement.

I know that this advanced system has not met with the hearty sympathy of all tax-payers, especially those who are so unfortunate as not to have children.