```
of Brooklyn, City and State of New York.

You shall use the Apartment for living purposes only. The Apartment may be occupied by the immediate family of the tenant or tenants and by occupants as defined in and only in a manner consistent with the terms of this Lease.

LENGTH OF LEASE
The term (that means the length) of this Lease is ONE year, ZERO months, ZERO days, and ending on 07/01/2024.

If you do not do everything You agree to do in this Lease, Owner may have the right to end the Lease. You may have the right to end the Lease if the Owner does not do everything that Owner agrees to do in this Lease.

RENT
Your monthly rent for the Apartment is $3,237.39. This amount is adjusted pursuant to Article [illegible] of the Lease. The rent is payable in consideration for Your use and occupation of the Apartment as set forth on any schedule attached to this Lease. You must pay Owner the rent, in advance, on the first day of each month either at Owner's office or at another place designated by written notice. You must pay the first month's rent to Owner when You sign this Lease if Tenant signs when Tenant signs on the number of days the Lease begins. Tenant must pay a pro-rated rent based on the number of days the Lease begins. If the Lease begins after the first day of a month, Tenant shall pay for the next full calendar month Tenant shall pay for the second calendar month, the term shall also include the remainder of the month in which the Lease begins. If the Lease begins on the first day of a calendar month, the rent for the first month of this Lease is the 16th day of the month. In any event, if the Lease begins on the 16th day of the month, Tenant shall pay for the next full calendar month Tenant shall pay for the second calendar month, the term shall also include the remainder of the month in which the Lease begins. If the Lease begins on the 16th day of the month, Tenant shall pay for the next full calendar month Tenant shall pay for the second calendar month, the term shall also include the remainder of the month in which the Lease begins. If the Lease begins on the 16th day of the month, Tenant shall pay for the next full calendar month Tenant shall pay for the second calendar month, the term shall also include the remainder of the month in which the Lease begins.

RENT ADJUSTMENTS
If this Lease is for a Rent Stabilized apartment, the rent shall be adjusted up or down duratively, to conform to the Rent Guidelines. Where Owner, upon application to the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal ("authorized agency") is found to be entitled to an increase in rent or other relief, You and Owner shall pay such increase in rent as the authorized agency has granted. You shall pay such increase in rent as the authorized agency has granted.

[stamp: INITIAL HERE]
```