OFFICERS 1900.

President,  
JOHN T. NICHOLSON, 509 West 146th St., New York.

Vice-Presidents,  
HERBERT J. PEASE, Utica.  
MARY A. MAGOVERN, New York.  
D. L. BATCHELLER, Buffalo.  
S. McKEE SMITH, Chatham.

Secretary,  
RICHARD A. SEARING, 478 Alexander St., Rochester.

Assistant Secretary,  
BENJAMIN VEIT, 173 E. 95th St., New York.

Treasurer,  
W. H. BENEDICT, Elmira.

Assistant Treasurer,  
JOHN C. CHASE, Saratoga Springs.

Transportation Agent,  
JAMES H. MCINNES, Brooklyn.

Superintendent of Exhibits,  
T. E. FINNEGAN, Albany.

Executive Committee,  
JOHN T. NICHOLSON, Chairman ex-officio.

TERMS EXPIRE 1900,  
CHARLES N. COBB, Regents' Office, Albany.  
GEORGE GRIFFITH, 40 Jewett Place, Utica.

TERMS EXPIRE 1901,  
GEORGE H. WALDEN, Grammar School No. 10, Rochester.  
DR. JAMES LEE, 235 East 124th St., New York City.

TERMS EXPIRE 1902,  
MILTON NOYES, Rochester.  
ABRAM FISCHLOWITZ, Boys' High School, 225 East 23d St., New York City.

[FIFTY-FIFTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE NEW YORK STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION]  
GENERAL MEETING  
Thursday Evening, July 6, 1900, 8:15 P.M.

Meeting called to order by President John T. Nicholson, following is an outline of the president's address:

It is incumbent upon me as representing the Association for the term of 1899 and 1900 of my stewardship.

When you placed the honor of the Presidency upon me last year, I promised to give the work in every way that I could. I promised to advance your interests in every possible way, that the end that your labors might be lightened, you might have more complete execution, your whole avoirdupois and chastened and sweetened by that best of all alleviations.

I sought to accomplish this result in various ways, for example, that there should be a better organization. This, I believe, has been accomplished through the instrumentality of the Constitution which empowered the Committee of Sixty-One. And it is timely the making of acknowledgments to the members of the Association for the advice and assistance to me in support of your purposes.

I shall not weary you with details of other efforts which are already apparent through the columns of the Journal. We have a very complete list of the teachers of the State who have been enrolled in the Association in the fifty-five years' history of the Association. If organization, therefore, is the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desideratum upon which we are to congratulate ourselves, we are the great desider