```plaintext
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

member proudly wears the white diamond shaped button of the order, and very few of them have there been who have had their decorations stripped off from falling from grace. Any body of men or boys banded together for a good common purpose naturally find other good causes and purposes pressing upon them, and almost unconsciously are brought under their influences. Elections for offices are held under the supervision of the leagues. Organizational value in the leagues. Elections for offices are held under the supervision of the leagues. Parliamentary methods are studied and observed in the conduct of their meetings, minutes are carefully kept and written out and a new element of importance is introduced in the school life. Interest is maintained by forming debate clubs, military companies and physical drill clubs; and in some of the schools the principals tell me a new and better atmosphere is observable.

This is my cause. I believe it to be a great moral one in which we can all unite in the hope that it will bring better health, brighter minds and better character to the American boy whom we all love. At present this movement is revolving upon the pivot of a cigarette, it cannot succeed without your full sympathy, co-operation and support. Are you with us?

This paper brought out the following discussion:

MAJOR STOWITZ of Buffalo: This is a good work. We all know however that example is more powerful than precept. How is it that our teachers can smoke a cigar? I have reproved my fellow teachers on the streets of Buffalo while smoking cigars. How can we advance this reform in the child, if we have not got will power enough to set him a good example by not smoking the cigar? How is he able to discriminate between the effect on his organization of the cigar and the deadly effect of the cigarette?

PRINCIPAL CHENEY, of Corländ: I have no doubt that those of us who do not smoke who have associated with the members of this association, who do smoke, many of them successful and capable teachers of the State of New York, can be convinced that there may be some difference of opinion with reference to this matter of smoking.

I have conversed very much with those of my friends who love their cigars with reference to this particular question; but with reference to the one that has been so ably and clearly presented by the Commissioner of education from the city of New York I think there will be no difference of opinion whatever.

It seems to me that those of us who have been any length of time in the schoolroom, and have watched this habit among the boys who have come under our care, have seen the baleful consequences that have manifested themselves in the physical, mental and moral natures of these boys.

Therefore, in order that we may be able in some measure to crystallize our opinion upon this particular phase of the subject, I have very crudely drawn a resolution pledging our help as teachers in the abolition of cigarette smoking among the young.

PRINCIPAL ADAMS, of Brooklyn: While I do not stand here to defend smoking. I am greatly interested in patriotism. I will make a confession: I never smoked a cigar or used a pipe until I went into the service of my country; and while I was there serving I acquired the habit, and have
```