AN ADDRESS BY HON. WARNER MILLER. 13

ing the sciences, and from that time on he laid down a plan of work and
study sufficient to last the balance of his working years.

This seems a Utopian scheme, but if carefully analyzed it will be found
that the curriculum for the first twenty years of Plato's youth is not
materially different from that followed by the ordinary Greek boy, and the
subsequent ten years which he prescribed to fit him for his profession is
not longer than is now required to render a student expert in any of the
learned professions. The young lawyer of the present day may begin his
practice at twenty-five of age, but he rarely, if ever, achieves success or
is intrusted with important cases before he is forty.

It should be noticed, in passing, that the education of girls had no place
in the Greek system as practical, or in the theoretical plans of Plato.
Whatever learning they acquired must have been in the privacy of home.

Let us pass from an education which was so varied and wonderful in
every phase, and has left a lasting impress on every civilized nation, to
another which has been none the less powerful in influencing and shaping
the education of the present.

Roman education, whilst it borrowed largely from the Greek, differed
much from it in its methods, and altogether from it in its results: the one
produced the highly cultured statesman, the philosopher—we might say in
the parlane of to-day, the "esthetic scholar"—; the other, the man of
affairs, the practical statesman, the warlike nation whose conquering
armies subdued the whole of the known world.

The Romans were a practical people and their education partook of that
characteristic; they taught mathematics and the arts and sciences as then
known with great success; they left out the music of the Greeks and much of
their gymnastics, but they did not neglect the languages, grammar, rhetoric
and oratory, by which their public men were fitted to move and control the
masses. In the later days of Rome the sons of her rich citizens were
educated under both systems, beginning at Rome and ending in the school of
some noted philosopher at Athens. Cicero is the most striking example of
the results of Greek and Roman education combined. He was an astute
politician and leader, at the same time a cultivated man of letters and a
political philosopher.

The Roman system, like the Greek, was a voluntary one; the government
took a deep interest in education, but mostly left it to the enterprise of
their private citizens. At times she made provision for the education of
the children of the poor at public expense; she educated the girls, but not
as thoroughly as the boys. The wife and mother was always a striking figure
in Roman history, and not unfrequently exerted great influence on the
affairs and destiny of the nation.

The advent of Christianity found the Roman Empire at its highest point
of development, both as regards military supremacy and intellectual growth.

[stamp: New York State Common School]