```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 65

Of General Dix, the world knows. Before he put his great natural and scholastic abilities at the service of our school system, he had been on a special and delicate mission to Denmark, and received high military honor, including the office of Adjutant-General of the State. He afterwards held innumerable positions of public trust, including those of Secretary of the Treasury, United States Senator, Major-General in the United States army during the rebellion, and finally Governor of this State.

Mr. Spencer was a graduate of Union, and had served one term in Congress, one in the State Senate, and had served as a Commissioner in revising the statutes of the State, before he became Superintendent of Common Schools, and was Secretary of War and Secretary of the Treasury afterward.

Samuel Young had been in each House of the Legislature, had served as Canal Commissioner from 1816 to 1840, and was the Democratic candidate for Governor against Mr. Clinton in 1824. Incidentally it is amusing to recall that in more illiberal times than these, he once denied an application to revoke the certificate of a teacher for dancing, card-playing and drinking, on the ground that he did the same things himself when a young man.

I speak of these four men with some particularity, not so much because they otherwise attained such great prominence, as to recall the qualities which they brought to the discharge of the duties of Superintendent, and to point out their influence upon the affairs of the schools. They occupied the office through a trying and critical period. They enjoyed the office and filled it. They shaped the policy and gave tone and substance to the whole system. Their decisions have, in many instances, become the common law of the schools. Their strong sense of right and their uncompromising steadfastness constituted a secure fortress against which the waves of ignorance, prejudice and controversy might beat harmlessly and without effect. Other names are entitled to share upon the bright side of the temple of fame for exerting an exceptional influence in behalf of her schools, but it was the matchless leadership of these four great men, from 1826 to 1845, which, according to Horace Mann and Henry Barnard, placed the New York system in the advance of all the rest at the end of that period.

To every one of the old State Superintendents may be traced some prominent feature of our present school system. Besides those whose names I have mentioned, Nathaniel S. Benton and Elias W. Leavenworth, Christopher Morgan, Henry S. Randall and Henry H. Van Dyck, were strong men, Victor M. Rice and all of them. The aggressiveness of others, perhaps in equal degree, have combined themselves upon the work of the schools, and so im[?ed] all in a common system, as to carry the best feature of each, and so combined themselves upon the work of the schools, and so im[?ed] all in a common system, as to carry the best feature of each, to all the remotest parts of the State.
```