```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION.                                                                 71

"Is the same mode of education equally applicable
to the male and female sex?"
They decided that a "theater, under the usual regulations, was
not favorable to morals;" and that "the present situation of
affairs was unfavorable to matrimony;" that "it would not be
good policy to manumit slaves in America immediately," and the
association seems to have gone to pieces in trying to decide
whether "the mental powers of the Aborigines of North America
were equal to those of the Europeans."
These reminiscences of this, the earliest of teachers' associations,
might be continued almost indefinitely. But so much must
suffice for the present. It was a primitive organization, but it
shows a devotion to their calling on the part of these old teachers.
With steadfast earnestness they continued for thirteen years at
least, to maintain a teachers' association for mutual improvement,
and the advancement of their schools. They had no
precedents to guide them, no successes and failures to light their
path. They did not copy; they originated. History has not yet
done them justice, but it may not always be so. The State Teachers'
Association may well stand with uncovered head, while it
respects and honors their memory.

OTHER LOCAL ASSOCIATIONS.

From the time when the State really assumed a share in the
support and supervision of schools, city, county and town associations
of teachers became common, and have had no small part
in determining the characteristics of the school system. Almost
every page in the early books and periodicals related to the interests
of education, reports the doings of these local associations.
As early as 1830, the State superintendent headed a movement
for the organization of county and town associations and for the
holding of public celebrations, and as a result, there was marked
activity in the way of organizations in all directions, and a notable
increase of public interest in all the affairs of the schools.

FIRST STATE CONVENTION OF TEACHERS.

The first State convention of teachers in this State, and the first
in any State, so far as my investigations have gone, was held at Utica
in October, 1830. Undoubtedly a thorough investigation would
reveal the circumstances which led to this gathering, as well as
the facts touching its character and its transactions. It is shrouded
in some mystery, however. I am certain of but one thing con-
cerning it, and that is it resolved upon and provided for calling
another convention only three months beyond this. The next State
teachers' convention was held at Utica, January 12, 13 and 14,
1831. Rev. Henry Davis, D. D., of Hamilton College, was president.
Most of the counties were represented, and most of the
```