```
and organized effort. The successful carrying out of our program is possible only by the co-operation of all the teachers of the State. Nothing big or important can be accomplished in these days except through organization and co-operation. If the teachers of New York State are to perform all their duties and functions as teachers, play their full part as citizens, and command the respect of other professions and other organized classes, they must have a strong and active organization functioning as a State unit.

2. Because it helps in a professional way. The zone or district meetings will furnish excellent programs on professional topics. Educational problems will be discussed by experts. Inspiring addresses will be delivered by great leaders. Our Journal goes to all members ten times a year to keep them informed concerning the problems, program and activities of the Association. The esprit de Corps thus developed in the teachers enables them to work more happily and efficiently.

No teacher can afford to stay outside. When we have 100% in our membership, we shall be able to secure any and all reasonable consideration for the teachers' welfare.

New York State as a whole is certainly responding nobly to the demand for more money for teaching. But we must beware of the reaction now setting in and we must be ready with strong organization to meet it.

Attendance at the meetings promotes closer acquaintance and good fellowship among teachers who are otherwise widely separated. It pays to rub elbows with our fellowworkers. Many of our best teachers holding the highest

positions attribute their rise in the profession to their wide acquaintance with teachers in general and their close acquaintance with educational leaders.

Membership in a strong, active, efficient organization of the workers in our branch of professional service is a source of inspiration and of a feeling of independence.

Every teacher worthy of the name wants to do her everyday classroom work just as well as it can be done, and attendance at Association meetings will help her to do it.

The teacher also desires to participate in more general community and civic activities. The Association affords a medium through which she may assert her rights, exercise her citizenship, and perform some important duties as a citizen.

It should be remembered also that many bills considered detrimental to the welfare of teachers or harmful to the schools were defeated largely through the watchfulness and initiative of our Association.

All these reasons for joining and supporting the Association should be made known to all teachers—not only to induce them to become members, but to imbue them with the spirit of the organization. The State Teachers' Association is a big, going concern; it is recognized as a leading factor in the educational progress; it has become a necessary part of our educational system. Therefore, it deserves the hearty co-operation and loyal support of every teacher in the Empire State.

Let us have a 100% enrollment of teachers in every supervisory district of the State for the year 1924-25.

Cordially yours,
RICHARD A. SEARING,
Secretary.
```

[stamp: FELLOWSHIP SCHOOL]