STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 59

...and they were wise and courageous beyond their generation, and gave no adhesion to the doctrine that it is the duty of the State to provide by common tax an elementary school within every home, and that a good English education at every child's access is the rightful inheritance of every child of the Commonwealth. They advanced to the point of believing that the State should encourage schools, and even to the point of believing that it might rightfully do this in a substantial way through its power to levy and collect taxes. But they still believed that, primarily, the responsibility rested upon each individual to educate his offspring, and that only when he failed to do this, private or public charity might properly aid the unfortunate.

It seems strange, in view of the fact that the State had previously confided its educational interests, so far as it had acted at all, to the Board of Regents, and that the common school system was established largely through the influence of that board, that it did not give the Regents supervision of the new system. But it did not do so. On the contrary, the bill recited that special provision had previously been made for encouraging colleges and academies and provided that nothing contained in this act should be construed as extending to such institutions. In 1800, a strong movement was made for continuing the provisions of the act of 1795 for another five years. It succeeded in the House, but failed in the Senate, near the close of the session, by a close vote. Each succeeding year for five years the Governor urged the subject, but nothing was done. Evidence is not wanting to show that the unfortunate delay and neglect resulted from differences as to the best course to pursue, and particularly as to whether the administration of the system should be given to the Regents.

In 1805, the foundations of a permanent common school fund were laid, and from that time, in spite of some neglect and hindrances innumerable, the common school system has, with unvarying uniformity, grown in strength and in efficiency. In 1798, the reports received showed the organization of 1,352 schools, with 59,960 pupils. In 1815, there were 2,755 districts and 140,106 pupils. In 1830, there were 9,063 districts, and 499,424 pupils. Last year there were 1,803,667 pupils in the common schools of the State.

PUBLIC SCHOOL SOCIETY OF NEW YORK CITY.

Even the briefest narration of the development of the State school system would be unfaithful, which failed to make mention of the "Public School Society of the City of New York." It was chartered by the Legislature in 1805, and was composed of the foremost citizens of the City of New York for the education of such poor children as do not belong to or are not provided for by any other school system.

[stamp: New York State Library]