DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

From the twenty-first of March to the twenty-first of September, the association met at 8 o'clock and adjourned at 10. From the twenty-first of September to the twenty-first of March, it met at 7 and adjourned at 9 o'clock. The time of meeting suggests early hours and regular habits in somewhat striking contrast with those observed by their successors in office. Six shillings were paid to the secretary that he might purchase a record book, and he secured a good one, bound in leather, every page of which is water-lined with an English coat-of-arms, and the letters "G.R." in remembrance of the fact that one of the Georges was king. On July 21, 1794, the common council granted the association the right to meet in the common council chamber "at such time as the same shall not be occupied by the public on business or by the Society for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge, the Medical Society, or the St. Cecilia's Society." With the assurance of a veteran, the infant at once drew on the St. Cecilia's Society to change its night of meeting for the better convenience of the schoolmasters' association. The officers were a president, secretary and steward. They served for three months, were required to take an obligation or pledge to perform faithfully the duties of the several offices, and the president and secretary were fined twenty-five cents, and the steward eighteen and one-half cents for each absence, unless excused.

But with all these incidental matters which inspire a smile, this association did substantial work. Its proceedings were of practical interest and importance. The association assumed to act as a breakwater against incompetency in the schools. A committee of seven was appointed to examine persons wishing to teach, and such as they found worthy, they certified to be so. It is to be hoped that they did not forget that they were once young and inexperienced themselves. The association also examined and recommended text-books and evidently compelled such textbook publishers as there were, to treat the society with proper and becoming respect. The City Library conferred upon the association one membership right in that institution, and a "reader" was appointed to examine the books and report any information he might receive, for the good of the society. When any student was so disorderly as to oblige the master to expel him, the facts of the case were reported for the information of all. The association assisted its members in collecting tuition fees from slow patrons. Among the subjects considered, the following are observed: "Is silent study or studying aloud most conducive to the improvement of scholars?" "Whether a systematical method of teaching penmanship is more eligible than such methods as are commonly pursued?" "Whether the practice of good flagellations by the tutor is advantageous to the good regulation of a school?" "Whether it is better to subject the passions to reason or root them out?" "Ought any religion further than morality be incultated in the schools?" "Whether an indolent person of great abilities or one of inferior talents and assiduity makes the best [illegible]"

[stamp: Department of Public Instruction]