DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

BOARD OF REGENTS PROPOSE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.

This original Board of Regents was the first representative body since the Dutch rule to make any official or public deliverance looking to the organization of a State public school system. Technically, it had no legal authority or responsibility concerning elementary schools, and it so understood. Indeed, there were no such schools at the close of the war, and the prevalent idea, if not universal, was that society itself was not chargeable with any responsibility in that connection. But the wisest statesmanship of the day was in that Board of Regents. In a musty book of records now in the archives of Columbia college, and as to the custody of which that institution and the Board of Regents have held contrary opinions, there is to be found the journal of the board during the three years when that college constituted the entire university, and when the functions of the Regents were mainly confined to the supervision of the same. In this book there is a record which is certainly of interest to us. On the 31st of January, 1787, the board appointed a committee, in the language of the record, "to take into consideration the present state of the university, and to report as soon as possible, the measures necessary to be adopted to carry into effect the views of the Legislature with respect to the same, and particularly with respect to Columbia College." The committee consisted of the mayor of New York, and Messrs. Jay, Rogers, Mason, Livingston, Clarkson, Gros and Hamilton. The report was presented at a meeting held February 16, 1787, adopted, and ordered to be transmitted to the Legislature. From the nature and verbiage of this report, as well as the order in which the names of the committee appear, it seems reasonably clear that Hamilton drafted it. After setting forth the various difficulties which the board had experienced and suggesting the necessary remedies, the committee went outside of its prescribed duty and, so far as I know, made the first public and official presentation of the necessity of common schools maintained by public authority, in the following words:

"But before your committee conclude, they feel themselves bound in faithfulness to add that the erecting of public schools for teaching, reading, writing and arithmetic is an object of very great importance which ought not to be left to the discretion of private men, but be promoted by public authority. Of so much knowledge no citizen ought to be destitute, and yet it is painful as true as it is painful that but too many of our youth are brought up in utter ignorance. This is a reproach under which we have long laboured unmarr[d] by the example of our neighbors, who, not leaving the education of their children to chance, have widely diffused throughout their State a public provision for such instruction.

"Your committee are sensible that the Regents are invested with no funds of which they have the disposal, but they nevertheless conceive it to be their duty to bring the subject in view before the honorable, the Legislature, who alone can provide a remedy."

[stamp: STATE OF NEW YORK]