[typed:]  
Nov. 16, 1959  
Dis. No. One met as per adjournment at the old school house. Meeting called by L. D. Davis Chairman at a previous meeting, to wit Resolved that a Union Free School be established within the limits of District Number One in the town of Wellsville pursuant to the provisions of chapter 433 of the laws of 1853 was called up and after discussion was voted upon by eyes and noses, the clerk reading the names of each voter answering "yes" or "no" as his name was called, which resulted as follows: seventy-two persons voted "yes" and thirty-three persons voted "no," whereupon the chairman declared the resolution carried by over a two thirds vote. Moved and carried that we elect a board of education to consist of nine. Voted that we vote by ballot for nine persons on each ballot and the nine receiving the greatest number of votes be declared elected. Per- sons elected Charles Collins, Hiram York, Harvey M. Shearar, George W. Russell, William M. Peebles, Welcome H. Coats, Edmund Baldwin, William S. Johnson, Isaac W. Fassett. Voted that the annual meeting be held on the second Tuesday in October of each year. The chairman proceeded by order of the meeting to ascertain what the terms of service for the members of the board and to divide them into three several classes accordingly which re- sulted as follows: The first class Wm. M. Peebles, Hiram York, Welcome H. Coats to hold for two years. The second class Wm. S. Johnson, George W. Russell, Isaac W. Fassett to hold for one year. The third class, Charles Collins, Edmund Baldwin, Har- vey M. Shearar to hold for three years.  

[handwritten:]  
Wellsville  
Box 13 Folder 51  

[typed:]  
We hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the whole minutes of the meeting last above mentioned and of the whole thereof.  

L. D. Davis Chairman  
George W. Russell Clerk  

---

```
Nov. 16, 1859. Dis. No. One meet as per adjournment at the old school house. Meeting called to order after the resolution offered at a previous meeting, to wit Resolved that a Union Free School be established within the limits of District Number One in the town of Wellsville pursuant to the provisions of chapter 433 of the Laws of 1853 was read, after discussion the clerk called up and the names of each voter upon by eyes and noses, the clerk reading the names of each voter answering "yes" or "no" as his name was called, which resulted as follows: seventy-two persons voted "yes" and thirty-three persons voted "no", whereupon the chairman declared the resolution carried by over a two thirds vote. Moved and carried that we elect a board of education to consist of nine. Voted that we elect a board of education to consist of nine. Voted by ballot for nine persons on each ballot and the nine receiving the greatest number of votes be declared elected. Per- sons elected Charles Collins, Hiram York, Harvey M. Shear, George W. Russell, William M. Peebles, Welcome H. Coats, Edmund Belwin, William S. Johnson, Isaac W. Rassett. Voted that the chairman proceed by order of the meeting to as- sign what the terms of service for the members of the board and to divide them into three several classes accordingly which re- mained to be done. The chairman proceeded to assign the terms of service for the members of the board and to divide them into three several classes accordingly which re- mained to be done. The first class to hold for one year. The second class to hold for two years. The third class to hold for three years. The first class Wm. Mi. Peebles, Hiram York, Welcome H. Coats to hold for one year. The second class Wm. S. Johnson, George W. Russell, Isaac W. Rassett to hold for two years. The third class Charles Collins, Edmund Baldwin, Har- vey M. Shearar to hold for three years.

We hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the minutes of the meeting last above mentioned and of the whole thereof.

L. D. Davis Chairman
George W. Russell Clerk
```

[stamp: Wellsville]
[Box 13 Folder 51]
[B0-54 07]