```
a. Joel Wunsell, printer, 58 State Street, Albany.

3. "The Teachers Advocate established at that time was the first teachers professional paper ever published" according to Mr. T. W. Valentine, proceedings of the annual meeting held at Oswego, August 1, 1854, NEW YORK TEACHER, Volume 2, Number 12, page 258.

4. "In 1852 it was merged with the district school journal. The State of New York was then without an educational periodical and this association without an organ; where these circumstances, a favorable opportunity was presented to the subject of education then approaching meeting at Oswego. The result was the establishment of the NEW YORK TEACHER, inst. increased subscription 3,000.

5. Mr. Valentine resigned at the Oswego meeting.

a. Mr. Howe moved the appointment of a committee to receive all matters pertaining to the TEACHER and report thereon at a future day.

b. Mr. McLigott moved that the TEACHER be published hereafter under the direction of a board of managers.

MOTION ADOPTED.

6. Every volume reports proceedings of the annual meetings.

7. Last issue September, 1857 (New York State Teachers Association - 1851 - 74 State Street)

8. By the official organ of the New York State Teachers Association and the Department of Public Instruction.

9. Mr. Cruckshank resigned at a meeting held at Auburn, July 23-25, 1857.

a. sometime in this period it became the official organ of the New York State Teachers Association and the Department of Public Instruction.

b. the committee appointed to continue its publication after a careful deliberation and inquiry decided that the interest of the association and the general cause of education would be best served by uniting the NEW YORK TEACHER with the EDUCATIONAL MONTHLY, a journal which has already established a wide circulation in our and other states. Accordingly, an arrangement has been made and a contract concluded with the publishers of the monthly Messrs. J. W. Schermerhorn & Co. in New York City for the ensuing five years, issuing the first number of the publication on the first of January 1858.

1. contains very brief reports of the annual meetings.

NEW YORK STATE EDUCATIONAL JOURNAL. [stamp: NEW YORK STATE EDUCATIONAL JOURNAL, November, 1872]

1. established by New York State Teachers Association, Buffalo
2. O. R. Burchard, publisher, Buffalo
3. $1.50 a year
4. containing reports of the proceedings

[illegible]
```