```
Why School-Construction Aid?

Great inequalities in economic ability and in educational load, both among the states and within the states, have long been recognized. Federal aid for school construction would assist all the states, and it would at the same time help to equalize the educational load. School construction aid carries with it no opportunity for federal control over classroom instruction. Since no auxiliary services are involved, the issue does not arise as to whether or not the nonpublic schools can share in it. School construction aid can be distributed by an objective formula and, when based on school-age population, it provides a considerable degree of equalization. Finally, the federal funds available for school construction will free some of the funds from state and local sources for teachers' salaries and other current expenditures.

Provisions of the Bills

In the hearings just ended five bills have been before the committee: HR 4545 (Bailey), HR 3362 (Mitchell), HR 4913 (Perkins), HR 7105 (Elliott), and HR 7399 (Irving).

The five bills are similar in general scope and purpose. All would provide for distribution of a substantial sum of federal money to the states according to an objective formula. The chief basis of the formula would be the number of school-age children. In all cases the money apportioned to the states would have to be matched, or exceeded, from state and local funds. The U.S. Office of Education and State Departments of Education would administer the grants. The initial plan would continue for three years.

Next Legislative Steps

The subcommittee will consider changes and additions to the bills before it that were suggested during the hearings. It is expected that very soon a "committee bill," including the best features of the five bills previously introduced, will be reported favorably to the full committee. The next step, then, is, study and consideration by the 24-member Committee on Education and Labor. A majority vote of that committee, meeting in executive session, must be secured in order for the bill to be placed on the calendar for House consideration. Failure to secure a majority vote will kill the legislation. PROMPT concurrence by the whole committee is therefore a vital step which should be encouraged in every possible way.

Those Who Tested:

Presentations of need and statements and resolutions of endorsement were submitted to the subcommittee by:

several persons, including many Congressmen. Those who appeared for oral testimony were:

Earl J. McGrath, U.S. commissioner of education, Office of Education, Federal Security Agency
William A. Early, superintendent, Arlington County Schools, representing the NEA Department of Rural Education
Hubert Wheeler, state commissioner of education, Jefferson City, Missouri
Angus MacDonald, assistant legislative secretary, National Farmers Union
James L. Creasy, county superintendent of schools, Martinsburg, West Virginia
J. T. Sanders, legislative counsel, The National Grange
H. M. Ivy, superintendent of schools, Meridian, Mississippi, and committee chairman, Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools
George Guernsey, associate director of education, Congress of Industrial Organizations
Mrs. Marie R. Turner, county superintendent of schools, Jackson, Kentucky
Vaughn D. Seidel, superintendent of schools, Alameda County, California
Edgar Fuller, executive secretary, National Council of Chief State School Officers
Edward J. Braun, assistant superintendent, Arlington County Schools, representing the National Council on Schoolhouse Construction
Mrs. Pearl M. Wanamaker, superintendent of public instruction, Olympia, Washington, and vice-president of the American Association of School Administrators
W. A. Shannon, executive secretary, Tennessee School Board Association, Nashville, Tennessee
E. B. Norton, president, State Teachers College, Florence, Alabama, and chairman, Education Committee, National Congress of Parents and Teachers
Thomas S. Gwynn, assistant superintendent, Prince Georges County Schools, Upper Marlboro, Maryland
George J. Hecht, chairman, American Parents Committee
W. W. Ostenberg, superintendent of schools, Salina, Kansas, representing the Kansas State Teachers Association
H. M. Corning, superintendent of schools, Washington, D. C.
Walter J. Mason, member, National Legislative Committee, American Federation of Labor
David H. Stewart, superintendent of schools, Dormont, Pennsylvania, and member of the N.E.A. Legislative Committee
David S. Jenkins, superintendent of schools, Anne Arundel County, Maryland

Work of NEA Legislative Division

Early in this session of Congress the NEA Division of Legislation and Federal Relations urged the prompt filling of vacancies on the House Committee on Education and Labor. Persistently it encouraged the formation of education subcommittees, including the one on school construction needs. It has worked closely with Chairman Bailey and with the clerk of the committee in setting up the hearings and in obtaining competent witnesses. Its efforts will now center on expediting the bill which the subcommittee recommends.

From this point forward everyone can help. Some specific suggestions follow:
```