STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 61

this way were not inconsiderable. In 1830 it was $374,000; in 1840, $475,000; in 1867, the last year of the system, it was $709,000. The average sum annually collected by rate bill in the forty years from 1828 to 1868, was $410,685.66.

The greatest contest concerning schools which the State has known was over the abolition of the rate-bill and the consequent establishment of absolutely free schools. Every man here, past 50 years of age who is accustomed to be interested in affairs, will feel the blood coursing more rapidly through his veins at the remembrance of the fight for schools, free to all and maintained at public expense. I fear none of the ladies are old enough to recall it.

The system became odious. It discriminated against the poor. Although it permitted trustees to excuse such from paying fees, no self-respecting man could suffer himself to be publicly adjudged to be poor, by a school trustee. It afforded a good excuse, or plausible pretext for non-attendance. It was attended with many misunderstandings and disputes, and promoted demoralization in many ways. Sentiment was deeply agitated, and found expression in every direction. In 1849, the Legislature submitted the question to a vote of the people, and the returns showed 249,872 in favor of making "the property of the State, the children of the State," and 91,951 against it. The opponents were not content. In 1850, they procured legislation resubmitting the question, and the returns showed 209,616 against the rate bill, and 184,303 for the old system. Still the opponents were not content. In 1850, a kind of compromise was effected, and the controversy was attempted to be settled by restoring the rate bill and levying a State tax for $800,000, to be distributed with the school money. This tax increased to larger amounts since, and is technically known as the "free school fund."

But, as a general thing, the cities would not tolerate the rate bill. At their solicitation the Legislature, from time to time, passed special acts creating a board of education with general powers and duties, and in this manner set up an organized school system in each city. These special laws ordinarily authorized taxation adequate to the entire support of the schools, and thus the rate bill became obsolete in most of the cities at a comparatively early day.

In the meantime, the "union free school district system" became legally permissible, and met with considerable favor. It became legally permissible, and met with considerable favor. It authorized districts to combine under a general tax, thus obviating the necessity for the rate bill system. In 1867, under the impetus of Victor M. Rice, the rate-bill system was abolished, and the principle that schools should be free to all and supported at public expense was triumphantly established.