STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 53

common school idea was among this people in the correct form, and that it occurs to me that enough has been shown to establish the proposition that we are indebted to the kingdom of the Netherlands, rather than the kingdom of Great Britain, for the first and essential principles of the free school system, and that the first importation came by way of Sandy Hook, rather than over Cape Cod.

LATIN SCHOOLS AT NEW AMSTERDAM.

In 1658 the people petitioned Peter Stuyvesant, the director, for a person to teach a Latin school, assuring him that it would be well attended, and would lead to the formation of an academy, "whereby this place to great splendor will have attained." The petition was granted, and a classical school was opened. Dr. Alexander Carolus, a professional teacher, was principal. He received $187.50 annually from the public treasury, was provided with a house and garden, received six guilders from each student, and was allowed to practice medicine in addition.

ENGLISH GOVERNMENT OPPOSED TO COMMON SCHOOLS.

It is said by eminent authority that when the Dutch were obliged to surrender to the English in 1664, the educational spirit was so common throughout the colony that almost every settlement had a regular school taught by more or less permanent teachers, and that there was a decided set back given to this movement upon the advent of the English in consequence of the apprehension on the part of the nobility, that common schools would nourish and strengthen a spirit of independence which had, even then, made some considerable headway. It is true, that the official instructions sent by the government to the successive governors of the province, uniformly provided that no person should be permitted to come from England to teach a school without the license of the archbishop of Canterbury, and that no person here should do so without the license of the governor, but it seems clear that this was not so much for the purpose of excluding incompetent instructors as it was to control appointments and determine the course of the schools.

Substantially the only legislative act relating to free schools, is that which passed within the colony, during the English rule, entitled "An act for encouragement of a grammar free school in the city of New York," bearing date November 22, 1702. It provided that there should be "Elected, Chosen, Authorized, one able, skilfull and Orthodox person to be and appointed, for the education and instruction of youth of French and Male Children of such parents as are of the English extraction as well as Dutch extraction," and that there should be collected the sum of fifty pounds for the support of such School-Master. This would seem to impair the statement that the English did not aid the common school idea among this people in the correct form, and that it occurs to me that enough has been shown to establish the proposition that we are indebted to the kingdom of the Netherlands, rather than the kingdom of Great Britain, for the first and essential principles of the free school system, and that the first importation came by way of Sandy Hook, rather than over Cape Cod.

[stamp: STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION]