```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 1021

when demand more system in institute work. The Department should be called upon to prepare annually full outlines of subjects to be discussed, containing directions for teachers, and quoting authorities for reference in study. Michigan, Indiana, West Virginia, Illinois and Massachusetts lead us in this respect. Such a plan prevents repetition, gives teachers the opportunity for thorough preparation, forces conductors to be definite and explicit; in short, it places the institute upon the same plane with any well organized course of instruction.

II. If our schools demand a bar against total incompetency in the case of teachers, they require as emphatically protection from incompetent supervising officers. These officers are to the schools as generals to an army. Napoleon is reported to have said: "Let me choose my generals, and I care nothing for the quality or quantity of the soldiers; the officers mold the army." Hon. J. W. Holcombe, State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Indiana, asks for legislation as a standard of qualifications for superintendents. "Various plans have been proposed," says he, "as that the superintendent, or all candidates for the office, must hold college or Normal school diplomas, or must be examined by the State Board of Education. The practical objections to these plans are serious; but I think it would be very reasonable and entirely practicable to prohibit the appointment of any one as county superintendent who did not hold a valid teachers' license of not less than twenty-four months' grade."

Now, if our licenses represented uniform qualifications, this would be a practical suggestion for New York. Of course, as one of our own superintendents has said: "Any qualifications required would not necessarily give efficient commissioners. Much depends on tact and natural ability for success; but if qualifications were required, totally unfit persons could not hold the office."

We should bear in mind that school commissioners cannot, however competent, uniformly produce the best results until their respective territories approximate uniformity. Our commissioner districts range from sixteen school districts in Kings to 198 in Steuben. "The superintendent," says the Virginia report for 1885, "should know every school under his jurisdiction and every scholar, as Cyrus knew every soldier that served under him, and Themistocles could call by name each one of the 20,000 citizens of Athens." In our largest districts, however, a commissioner is "a mere clerk to keep accounts, to examine teachers, and to make reports." His strength should lie in overseeing the schools. (Illinois report, 1885, '86.) The formation of a new district in Chautauqua was a step in the right direction. The failure to secure the same in Genesee, St. Lawrence and Steuben shows how strongly the necessity for division must be insisted upon. The law of 1881, giving boards of supervisors power to divide commissioner districts containing more than 200 school districts, should read 100 school districts at the greatest. The amendment of 150, lost in 1887, would not be sufficient.

III. With some degree of uniformity in territory of commissioners, qualifications of teachers and commissioners, the work of pupils in rural districts would approximate uniformity. In fact those commissioners who now have not more than 100 schools in charge, and are reasonably careful in the choice of teachers, can establish, by degrees, a uniform course of study for ungraded schools. In California the
```

[stamp: STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION]