```plaintext
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

commonwealth where the blissful life of the rustic swain is only broken by the joys and sorrows of the county fair, the circus, and the country funeral. The population of rural communities is constantly decreasing by reason of removals and a lesser number of births. It goes toward the centres of trade and business. Another reason why schools are smaller is the fact that the pupils leave at an earlier age than formerly. Often times the deciding argument which takes a family from a sparsely settled district to a small or large village is the advantage to be derived from the common school. Many children are sent from home at the age of twelve years, and any one can recall instances where families have moved from their country homes for the sole purpose of securing school advantages. By and through no other agency than an improved rural school can this drift of population be checked, and the development of our agricultural resources be extended until they become the invincible right arm of our state supremacy.

In the second commissioner district of Herkimer county, there are ninety-six schools. Forty-four of these each had an average daily attendance of less than ten for the year ending July 25th, 1893. The average daily attendance of the ninety-six schools was only ten and one-tenth. A well arranged program for a rural school requires for twenty to thirty recitations daily. It takes but little calculation to determine how many children, or what part of a child, will be found in the several classes. Of necessity many contain only one or two pupils. Can you discern in this arrangement any-thing but a meager opportunity to develop any-thing but the meager opportunity to develop the personality of the child? The pupil who deserves the honor of being at the head of the class, stands at the head, the foot and in the middle. He never knows "where he is at"—a very essential thing for him to know. He cannot develop a vigorous personality, but drudges along wholly unconcerned as to his true rank, scholarship and attainments. No one of us would send our children to a public school where the number of pupils was large while the classes contained only one or two pupils. No one of us would encourage the scholastic education of children in the retirement of a home. Children, as much as any class of people, need to associate with and measure themselves by others having the same occupation. Association, rivalry, and competition are powerful forces in arousing ambition and in quickening the energies. To the scholar these things are a necessity. The work of the classroom has furnished the primal incentives to many of the successful men and women of to-day. There are within the rural schools some of the brightest and best students of the state. They will never be heard of; because from shame must it be said, they receive but little training, and with little training to aid them in pursuing the vocations of their community. Someone says that true merit within the rural schools has allowed no opportunity for it to develop a personality by associating with the merits and demerits of other lives. A character which is not ground out by contact with other lives is worth but little in life's battles. A public school with the average attendance which five thousand of the word. Schools do not exist for school officers or their relatives, but
```

[Note: The text is transcribed exactly as it appears in the image, including archaic spellings, abbreviations, and formatting. The last sentence is cut off in the image, so it is transcribed accordingly. No stamps or seals are visible in this particular image.]
```