```plaintext
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

The estimate appears to have been conceived in too imprudent
spirit, and was reduced to eighteen guilders or seven dollars
and fifty-six cents per month. On one occasion the governor
colony parleyed with the Indian chiefs and urged
to send their sons down to New Amsterdam to school. After
taking a week
to accept the invitation for the boys were altogether
under the control of their mothers. I am sure that
William Vestens, a teacher of ancient days, will not only
challenge your admiration, but gain your sympathy, for he is
shown to have led a bold, but
apparently an ineffectual movement for "an increase of salary."

The churches frequently maintained or supervised schools,
and not uncommonly the functions of the minister and teacher
economically combined in the same person. Indeed, it
more than once happened that the poor teacher had also act
as sexton, chorister or psalmster and a "comforter of the sick,"
as the person who supplied the minister's place, was commonly
called.

"Clergymen, comforters of the sick, and school-masters"
were designated as "necessary officers" in the articles
adopted by the economical States-General in 1638, concerning
the colonization of New Netherland. One of the dignified
early reports upon the condition of the colony, speaks of the
plate having been passed around a long time to raise money
to build a school-house, "which has yet been built only with
words," and asserts that the school "is kept very irregularly
by this one or that according to his fancy, as long as he thinks
proper." If this was not for the purpose, it certainly should
have had the effect of loosening the purse-strings of the home
government. The extension of the population into the interior,
is shown by the official direction to provide ministers
and teachers to be sent to "Rensselaer's Colony," and other
"distant places." In one instance the people are plainly told
by the director for the colony, that "if they are such patriots
as they appear to be, they will be leaders in generous
contributions for laudable objects, and will not complain
when the directors request a collection toward the erection
of a church and a school." That learning was making progress,
is shown by the fact that in 1655 Aegidius Luyck is spoken
of "as late principal of the Latin school in New Amsterdam."
In several instances, the governor and council of the colony
received complaints that the inhabitants of certain villages
refused to pay for the support of schools, and after notifying
the delinquents to appear and answer, ordered them "to promptly
pay their share for the support aforesaid, on pain of proceeding
against them with immediate execution." How much pain
would ensue in that painful event, I am certainly unable to say.

COMMON SCHOOLS IMPORTED FROM HOLLAND.

Reminiscences like these might be multiplied almost indefinitely.
Enough have been recited to show that while learning
was in its incipient stages, as was everything else, yet the
```