```
AN ADDRESS BY HON. J. W. DICKINSON. 37

they ask you in behalf of the benefits that may accrue to rising generations to grant their petition.
Our State Association cannot successfully ignore this reasonable request,
and it would not impoverish you, but add another link to the chain of golden
opportunity for securing the greatest good to the greatest number.

LIMITS OF ORAL TEACHING.

AN ADDRESS BY HON. J. W. DICKINSON, SECRETARY OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
BOARD OF EDUCATION.

The question to what extent should oral teaching be practiced in the
schools must be answered, if it is answered at all, by bringing before our
minds the true nature of the act and the results it is designed to accomplish.
This may be done: 1st, by defining oral teaching; 2d, by showing what
teaching is adapted to secure; 3d, by determining the true ends to be
accomplished by pupils at school; 4th, by comparing the ends oral teaching
is adapted to produce, with the ends to be accomplished, and from the
comparison to find what is the true province or limit of oral teaching.

1st. What is oral teaching? It will attempt to answer this question by
first defining teaching as a general act, without attaching to it any of those
limitations which describe a particular kind; then by adding some
restrictions I will define oral teaching as one of the kinds which may be
supposed to exist.

DEFINITIONS OF CULTURE AND KNOWLEDGE.

In order that the definition of teaching may be intelligible to all, and
that all may understand it in the same sense, it must be derived from
illustrations of the significant terms employed in its construction.

One of these terms is culture, sometimes called training, or discipline,
or education, but all naming the same idea.

By observation and experience, we know that a continued thinking of
any object or subject of thought produces a facility in performing that mental
act. We know also that if the mind has a continued practice in controlling
the body in any of its physical movements, it will acquire a facility in the
exercise of its controlling powers over these movements. The facility
produced or acquired by the continued exertion of active power is culture.
The facility produced or acquired for controlling mental activity simply is
called mental culture. The facility gained for controlling the body is
physical culture.

In the truest sense of the term there is no culture but mental. But as
the culture in the one case
```