```plaintext
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

religious society." This illustrates the prevailing sentiment of the
time concerning the relation which society should sustain to
common education, better than any language of mine can do.
In acting up to the spirit of the times, and in carrying out
the beneficent object for which it was created, this society won
the gratitude of the ages. It received public and private contribu-
tions, and tuition fees for the support of its work; it controlled
all the public schools in the city for nearly fifty years; it exerted
a strong influence upon the educational opinion of the country.
At its dissolution in 1853, it had supervised the instruction of
600,000 children, and it turned over to the board of education of
the city of New York, property worth more than $450,000.
What this society was doing in the city of New York, was being
done in one way or another to a greater or less extent, by associated
effort in all the cities and towns of the State.

GROWTH OF THE SYSTEM.

The fact that the State assumed to regulate the affairs of the
schools to some extent, as well as the aid which it gave them,
coupled with the growing public interest in them, and the arder
of the professional educators, steadily promoted the growth and
development of the system till, in the judgment of the most com-
petent and impartial witnesses, it clearly led the educational work
of the country. In his annual report for 1845, Horace Mann,
secretary of board of education of Massachusetts, says: "The
great State of New York is carrying forward the work of public
education more rapidly than any other State in the Union, or any
other country in the world." And Henry Barnard, of Connec-
ticut, said, at the first meeting of your association in the same
year, "I have watched the progressive improvement in the
organization and administration of the school system of this great
State with intense interest, and regard it at this time as superior
to any other of which I have any knowledge, for its liberality, its
efficiency and the general intelligence and activity with which its
widespread affairs are administered." These will be recognized,
at once, as great names—perhaps the greatest—in
the history of common school development in the country.

THE RATE BILL

The early legislation seems to have been framed on the belief
that the income of the State School Fund, and the tax equal to one-
half its share, which each district was required to raise, would
support the schools, but this was found to be inadequate, and then
it was provided that the schools should be maintained a specified
time each year, and that any deficiency in funds should be collected
from the patrons of the schools in proportion to the attendance
of their children. This gave rise to the "rate bill." It was only
a tax levied upon parents in proportion to the number of days
which their children attended the school. The amounts raised in
```

[Note: The text is transcribed exactly as it appears in the image, preserving original spelling, capitalization, and punctuation. The page number "60" is visible at the top left corner of the left page. No stamps, seals, or marginal annotations are present in this section of the document.]