[Page 39]

healthful buildings and grounds now in use should be condemned
and abandoned. If children are to be educated properly, let
schoolhouses always be places of health and beauty and life.
The state ought to be generous also in salaries to teachers.
Make entrance to the profession difficult, set the standard of
qualifications high, bar out relentlessly unworthy applicants,
demand the best and exact the fullest service, then pay salaries
and exact the fullest service, then pay salaries
proportionate to the work they do for the children and the state.
When hod carriers and street cleaners receive larger wages than
the state allows teachers for salaries, something is wrong.
Teachers are building the character of our children for time and
eternity. Surely their work is worth as much as the work of
men employed in building our houses and places of business.
A school commissioner recently stated that a trustee said to
him: "I am paying my teacher $4.50 per week. Can you tell me
where I can find one for $4.00?"

Teachers have a right to expect fair treatment, to be considered
as men and women belonging to an honorable profession.
A few years ago a party of teachers from one of our cities spent
their vacation on the shores of Lake Ontario. They refused to
make known their profession because they feared they would not
be allowed the same privileges as other guests. Admitting that
all teachers do not come up to the required standard of
professional courtesy and learning—do all lawyers or physicians?
Should more be demanded of teachers in these respects than is
demanded of those in other professions? Whatever can be done
by the state to ennoble the work of the teacher; to lift higher
the standard of admission to the profession; to enlarge the
privileges of those worthy to enter it; to secure their tenure in
office; to provide adequate salaries; to protect from the infirmities
of those grown old in service; these returns, men and women
who devote their lives to the grandest work of the age, have a
right to expect from the state of New York.

Executive officers of the right sort should also have good salaries—
large enough to attract men of the greatest brain and the
noblest heart to the service of the state. With the examples set
by banking, railroad and insurance companies in the salaries
paid their officers, it is time the state determined to give
adequate salaries to the officers who manage its educational
interests. Horace Mann toiled for years as the secretary of
education in Massachusetts on a less salary than a merchant gives
his office clerk. Massachusetts to-day is far richer in the schools
he advocated and established than it possibly could have been
had he never served the state. Henry Barnard's name and fame
holds place in the hearts of men, and yet Connecticut kept his
salary small, turned him out of
[illegible]