```plaintext
Some Recent Criticisms on our Public Schools. 3

abusive language. This would be unworthy of us as guardians of a great trust, having a reputation to fortify for wisdom of thought and courtesy of speech. To us the critics are simply a phenomenon to be investigated. Who knows but in the fulness of their reproaches may be hidden a lesson to which we may give heed ?

Secretary Dickinson, of the Massachusetts Board of Education, within a year addressed to a number of prominent citizens of that State, some of them educators and some not, a note inquiring what they considered "the chief defects in our system of public education." The replies of ten of these persons are given in the Secretary's report for 1879-80. Whether Mr. Dickinson found any citizens who were willing to avow that they regarded the schools as being beyond criticism,—good enough as they are,—we have no means of knowing. Certain it is that these ten all found fault, there being among them certain most conspicuous friends and defenders of the schools. The lesson for us to draw from these ten replies is this,—that in a community where schools abound, and where the faults of the system may be assumed to have developed themselves as fully as its excellences, several persons, eminent for insight and understanding, writing without collusion, utterly fail to suggest any common ground for the discontent which they all profess to feel. But, ridiculous as this situation is from the point of view of the disinterested observer, it is not for us to limit our regards to its ridiculous aspect. We must evolve a unity from these sundry manifestations, and debate that. The diversity is worthy only of a passing remark. The fact of the general discontent remains. The case is that the critics undoubtedly represent the community, and are discontented; and, further, that the critics are unable to tell us where the trouble lies, so that we must investigate the matter ourselves and tell them. It is much the same as it is between the grangers, between the railroads, between the congressmen and the banks. Grangers and congressmen are absolutely incompetent to legislate for the railroads and the banks. Those who know and understand a matter are sure to have it at last to manage. But it is a very unwise banker who proposes to act in his banking without taking Congress into account, and it is a ruinous policy for a railroad to ignore the grangers and the public sentiment which they represent. Educators must study public sentiment, and seek to adapt the schools to the public needs. They would do wrong to ask the critics to digest, formulate and codify their strictures, because the critics are incompetent to perform such a task. This we must do ourselves.

It may be said that thoughtful, cultivated men of the leisurely classes, who observe our politics without partisan bias and who compare our social life with what they have seen in Europe, are generally ranged among the critics of our schools. But these men are also, it must be noted, very severe critics of others of our institutions. The man or the woman who, not being already a critic, and perhaps also a notable critic, of a good many other respected things, has first learned to find fault by examining the schools, is
```