```
The Journal
JOHN H. SELKIRK, WESLEY HOOKER, EDITORS

Terms of Subscription.
To mail and village subscribers, in advance of each quarter, $2.00; to all others, $2.50 per year, unless paid for in advance. No subscription to be received for less than six months. Single copies, 5 cents.

N.Y. STATE COMMISSIONERS AND SUPERINTENDENTS
On Monday afternoon at 4 o'clock, the School Superintendents and Commissioners met in Library Hall, and organized. After calling the roll, the following resolution, presented at an informal meeting held a few hours previously, was offered and discussed:

Resolved, That in justice to our schools, they should have the authority to limit the time of teachers to six or three months as their judgment shall dictate.

This resolution was afterwards amended by striking out the words "six or three months."

Another resolution was offered requesting the State Superintendent to conform in his practice to the opinion expressed in the above resolution.

The meeting adjourned until Tuesday morning.

At 8 A.M. on Tuesday, the report of Sup't Sheldon upon the subject of the resolution above offered was presented, read, and ably discussed. The discussion was discontinued in order to hear an intersting paper read by Dr. Crisfield on the study of the Natural Sciences.

Mr. Sheldon's report was again taken up and finally referred to the Teachers' Association in order to obtain a Committee of Conference.

In the afternoon session Mr. Barrow was able to present a report recommending many beneficial changes in regard to the executive government of the common schools of the State. Among other propositions made was one to abolish the Board of Regents of the Common Schools. The report was unanimously adopted.

The meeting was adjourned until Wednesday morning, at which time the discussion in regard to improvements in our school system was continued and after a free expression of views the meeting adjourned.

It is rumored that Commodore Vanderbilt is to be married to a beautiful girl of seventeen summers. There is lively discussion among the various belles of the Commodore alternately giving an airing behind his stylish pomps, as to which one is the coming woman.

An exchange says a neighbor who had long been urged by some female friends to accompany them to a skating party last yielded, no longer able to resist the bewitching tones of his [illegible].

Ithaca and Cortland Rail Road
In another column will be found the proceedings completing the organization of the Ithaca and Cortland Rail Road at Cortland village, on Friday last. Gen. Wm. L. Burt, of Boston, was elected President of the road; Hon. Edward S. Esty, of Ithaca, Secretary and Assistant Treasurer; and James Spires, of Cortland, Treasurer. These officers are men of more than ordinary capacity, experience, and industry. Gen. Burt is without question one of the first railroad men in the whole United States; and his selection ensures the early building of the road, and the most economical expenditure of the money. In the selection of Mr. Esty as Secretary, the Company have been also fortunate. He has been one of the earliest and warmest friends of the project, and his selection is a most responsible position assigned him by the Board of Directors. The business office of the Company is to be located in Ithaca, and we know of no selection that could have been more fitting. The Treasurer, Mr. Spires, has the confidence of all who know him.

In short, the organization means "business."

Before leaving the subject this week we wish to make a few observations in respect to the towns of Dryden and Groton and the responsibility of the Ithaca and Towanda R.R. Directors. The building of the Ithaca and Cortland road ensures the building of the Western Millford to Cortland, and not only that, but also the Millford will use the Ithaca and Cortland road and the Southern Central from Freewill to Auburn for its connections westward from Auburn on the Lakes. Hence, the construction of the Ithaca and Cortland road is essential for the development and strengthening of the Southern Central road, and every person interested in the latter is equally concerned for the prosperity of the former. These two towns, in the present state of affairs, are in fact more nearly concerned in the construction of the Ithaca and Cortland road than in any other possible enterprise. It settles at once, in favor of questions which, if decided against them, would destroy the investments made in the S.C. Dryden is vitally interested. This road is to run through the whole length of the town on the banks of a permanent stream, and will open to the outside the best and most numerous water powers in the State. It will be dotted with mills and manufacturing establishments when this railroad opens at a market.

Again—the travel from Syracuse to Ithaca will be greatly facilitated, and this in consequence of the organization of the Ithaca and Cortland R.R. Company.

Labor and Capital
There are many of our most thoughtful statesmen who seem to think that our country is destined to be the scene of a fearful strife between capital which can hardly fail to prove disastrous to our Republican institutions. We do not share in this apprehension, and would suggest to our readers a few considerations of a general character.

In the first place, let us consider that we view our people as belonging to three distinct classes in regard to this matter of capital: 1. Capitalists, who do nothing but take care of their capital and interest; 2. Those who work for wages and have nothing what they receive as wages; 3. Small capitalists, who own something, and use what they own as means of supporting their families, and earning, it may be, something more than they now have.

In this country the laborers last named are the most numerous, the most powerful—the first class named hold all or nearly all the political power; the second class constitute more than half the people, and the third class are almost insignificant and powerless; and therefore they control, or at least can and will control the legislation of the nation when any question arises obviously touching their interests and welfare to unite them in their support.

In England and all the other countries of the old world, on the other hand, the first class named hold all or nearly all the political power; the second class constitute more than half the people, and the third class are almost insignificant and powerless; and therefore they control, or at least can and will control the legislation of the nation when any question arises obviously touching their interests and welfare to unite them in their support.

In this country the laborers last named are the most numerous, the most powerful—the first class named hold all or nearly all the political power; the second class constitute more than half the people, and the third class are almost insignificant and powerless; and therefore they control, or at least can and will control the legislation of the nation when any question arises obviously touching their interests and welfare to unite them in their support.

In England and all the other countries of the old world, on the other hand, the first class named hold all or nearly all the political power; the second class constitute more than half the people,