STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 49

have marked the social and intellectual advancement of the people of New York. If this is so, it is not strange. In the economy of state-craft as in the experience of the schools, it is the physical object which arrests the attention, and it is the object-lesson which excites interest, arouses enthusiasm, and leaves the deepest impressions upon the mind. Railways and steamships, merchandise and machinery, works and munificent charities, all the institutions which support a free State and the temple of liberty, are but the public and visible manifestation of wide-spread mental and moral development. May we not to-night undertake to look through these visible objects, and endeavor to discern the reason of them? May we not try to ascertain the leading influence behind these familiar and invaluable things, and profitably to inquire into the causes which it, in turn, has produced?

Circumstances have scarcely favored this unprecedented development in statehood. The foundations of New York were laid by a rude people, in an unbroken wilderness overrun by barbarians and savages. The struggle for bread was a hard one. Yet these people offered asylum and succor to the oppressed and the heart-sore of all nations. The response was overwhelming. But all kinds, the best and the worst, came together. With the honest man seeking the rights of conscience and the opportunity of improvement, which were denied him in the old world, came the adventurer and the scapegrace. We have always held the greatest port of entry in the country, and the overwhelming and oft-polluted tide of immigration has always surged into or across our territory. The accumulation of many people in great communities, always presents many and difficult social and industrial problems. Yet who shall say that the six millions of people of the Empire State are, all classes together, less generally informed, less keenly and alertly intelligent than any other six millions of people on the globe? Again, who shall say that these six millions of people are not better housed, better fed, better clothed, more generally educated, more active in affairs, better equipped for self-government than any other entire people numbering six millions, unless it be other citizens of our own country, surrounded by the same circumstances and conditions?

This is the result of intellectual force and of mental strength, which is widely spread and generally diffused. The fact that it reaches all classes is its chief glory. It extends not only to the manager of a railway, but to the man who runs the train or walks the track. Commonly both have enjoyed equal opportunities and stand in different grades of the service, only because of qualities which in different individuals, and which no policy of the State can regulate. As often as otherwise, the man at the top suffered the greatest hardships, labored against the greatest disadvantages, and had the poorest chance. But both are alert within their sphere. Each is industrious and aggressive. Each reads the

[stamp: STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION]