```
8
A PAPER BY SAMUEL THURBER, A.M.,

to mingle largely in their children's intellectual and moral character is almost
as serious a loss to the prevailing average of moral education in a community
as is the harm done to the children.
As the family is the primal source of spiritual refreshment to our
too selfish life in the state and our too formal life in society. If parents do
not themselves teach their children, looking after their progress in school no
less than after their manners and morals, the parents themselves come to
hold a relation to life less full and clear, and their own manners and morals suffer
some sort of a degeneracy. The children acquire wilfulness and precocious
worldly ambition. Finally comes the critic, gifted to discern that the times
are out of joint, but, alas, not gifted to go further and to utter the word of
healing after he has inflicted the wound.

But do not imagine that, for too blind a trust in the schools, I am going
to suggest diminished excellence as a means of bringing about a withdrawal
of confidence. I will, however, be bold to say what I believe to be the only way
to restore right relations between parents and schools, between tax-payers and
schools, and, as I have shown, between parents and children no less.
My suggestion is to strike this audience as revolutionary. Many will say
that I propose to turn back the wheels of progress and to bring back a dark age.
But I see no other way. In its upper ranges at once, and ultimately in all its
ranges, this public education should cost something to those who at any time
receive it. In high schools the whole tuition bill might be borne by the families
who at any time enjoy the advantages of the schools. In the lower
grades a still smaller portion of the whole cost should be collected of the
parents. Parents unable to pay anything for their children's education, should
be required to keep them in school a certain length of time at the public cost.
Ability or inability to pay this tax can be judged by assessors as well as ability
or inability to pay any other tax. In the high school, if the public treasury
provides the building and its maintenance, the material and the supervision,
it will retain for the public governing body sufficient hold upon the schools
to prevent them from falling into the wretched absurdities of the private schools;
and an equitable division of the cost between the recipients of the advantages
will be secured. Education should be chargeable to the State in proportion as
its benefits accrue to the State. This proportion I believe to be very great.
But it is folly to claim that its advantages so wholly injure to the public that
surrender its hold on the schools. The State must not
schools in the world are those which the critic, somehow, does not
rant and ambitious rich. The worst schools in cities, patronized by the igno-
rance of ostentation and parade. The education that flourishes
Contemptible in itself, the thing is irredeemably obnoxious when it creeps into
the public schools.
```

[Note: The last paragraph appears to be cut off or incomplete in the original document. The transcription preserves the visible text exactly as it appears.]