As a result of the new City School Law of 1950 and the Constitutional tax and debt limit amendments of 1949 and 1951, which gave fiscal independence and responsibility to city school districts in cities of less than 125,000 population, it is now a simple matter legally to annex one or more contiguous districts to a city school district. However, because of practical reasons, only one of the approximately 500 districts referred to in the 1947 Master Plan has been annexed.

In its study, the Commission found these major factors retarding enlargement of the city districts:

1. Present State education aid provisions for contract districts and non-resident pupils and the resulting low tax rate in most of the contract districts make them unenthusiastic for change. The tax rates in the districts sending students to cities usually are $5 to $6 per $1,000 full valuation lower than the city school tax rates. At the same time, many city areas which have indicated an interest in enlarging the city school district also have a fear that increased tax rates might result.

2. Under present conditions, contract districts and districts which send only high school pupils to other schools generally are not bearing their fair share of the cost of education. The receiving districts which build schools to accommodate non-resident pupils are taking all of the risk for they are creating long-term debt to provide facilities for pupils who are being educated on annual or short-term agreements.

3. Annexation of outside districts, under present circumstances, often would operate to the disadvantage of the city because:

   A. The city often would have to provide transportation for these pupils at local expense.

   B. The education program and school facilities generally would have to be brought up to the city level.

C. Retention of rural teachers would require placing them on city salary schedules. Over a period of years, this results in an increased cost per year of more than $1,000 for each teacher retained.

D. There are many one and two room schools in the districts adjacent to cities, which will have to be replaced.

E. The amount of real estate valuation per pupil in the 500 districts is generally much lower than in the cities.

F. By reorganization under present laws, city school districts generally would lose substantial amounts of State aid.

As a result of these findings, the Commission is offering recommendations to the Legislature to expedite the reorganization of city school districts. (See Section V.)

Area Study in New York

New York City and other cities of the State face a major problem in bringing existing school buildings up to acceptable standards and in determining whether this can be accomplished best by rehabilitation or modernization. Although this type of problem can be met gradually over the years, it cannot safely be postponed year after year. Its solution requires a systematic and orderly approach.

Because of the seriousness of this problem and the difficulty in developing standards and procedures for determining when a building should be modernized, rehabilitated or replaced, the Commission decided to make an intensive field study in a selected area.

The Commission enlisted the cooperation of the City of New York's Board of Education, Planning Com-