```plaintext
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

We need no argument to prove that a little stock of elementary knowledge, per capita does not of itself make an orderly community, nor does it, unaccompanied by moral influence, I think, materially lessen the vice or crime of a given locality, except so far as it may be achieved through the influence of good literature. Your honored president's valuable paper delivered here a year or two since on that subject was very convincing. Shall we abandon all definite efforts at character building, in our school days? Shall we cause religion to be barred at our school doors? Surely humanity, religion itself and our common interests forbid. A sodd[en] criminal is less dangerous in a community than a clever knave.

Is it not therefore the business of those concerned with public school instruction to undertake by every proper method the building up of that most important part of every man's being, his character. Any education from the top to the bottom that falls short of the even development of the physical, intellectual and moral being of every one brought under its care, so far forth fails of its perfect achievement. Faulty physical development makes burdens for the state to sustain in infirmaries and hospitals, faulty minds and sound morals prevail in the majority of our citizens, or the very existence of the state is imperiled. Our public schools must be the nursery of all these if they are to fulfill their greatest destiny. If there is any vice, habit or immoral tendency that appears among the youth entrusted to our care, it is our duty by every means applicable to stamp it out, at the same time reading the lesson of its indulgence. And this brings me up to the discussion of my subject, "A Needed Reform." Within the past ten years a vice has appeared among our American youth that menaces the growth and development of our young citizens in all the three departments of their being that I have heretofore dwelt upon. That immaculate roll of cheap tobacco and white paper is in my opinion a greater menace to the immature youth of our country than anything else that can be named. The vice in its relation to the use of tobacco is not content unless he can pump down into the smallest lobes of his lungs the poisonous vapor that is soon distributed with its death dealing wide-spread that it is no uncommon thing to see lads of seven or eight of a veteran. In the presence of this audience I need not enlarge upon the full penalty he pays for his indulgence; you know the victim and you know the dread of you, pale faced, sallow and listless; he has sat before every one attentive to his studies, gradually losing the power of application
```

[Note: The text appears to be a continuous page from a historical document, likely a report or speech related to public education. The transcription preserves the original formatting, including paragraph structure and sentence flow. Some words are partially cut off at the bottom of the page, which is indicated by the ellipsis (...).]