Proceedings of the

Albany, where it could have the immediate supervision of the Superintendent of Common Schools, and be visited by the members of the Legislature. This idea of separate schools, for the professional training of teachers, was in accord with the plan followed in Massachusetts. The plan pursued in this State had been carefully investigated by Massachusetts educators, and they had decided not to recommend it, rather a plan that provided for schools wholly devoted to the training of teachers. Horace Mann compared the two systems in the most able manner, pointing out the superiority of separate schools.

Dr. Potter's report did not receive the endorsement of the then Legislature, Mr. Spencer contended that the teachers' departments in academies as desirable as separate normal schools for the training of teachers, and recommended that more of them be established. Accordingly, in 1841, eight additional departments were established, making twenty-four in the entire State. His successor, Samuel Young, did not coincide with his views. In the same year in which Mr. Young took office, 1842, a convention of county superintendents, which was addressed by Dr. Potter, Horace Mann and George B. Emerson in the interest of normal schools, pure and simple. At a similar convention, held the following year, the county superintendents again voted in favor of separate normal schools.

In his annual report of the same year, Mr. Young, concurring with the county superintendents, declared against the efficiency of the teachers' departments in academies, "because the bounty of the State was diffused over too wide a surface," and recommended that the $4,800 appropriated for this purpose be divided up among the four best academies, and that a sufficient amount be set aside from the literature fund to establish and maintain a normal school at Albany. He made the same recommendation to the Regents of the University, who at once took favorable action on the recommendation. These teachers' departments of the board Superintendent Young moved that the appointment of the standing committee of the board of Regents be for the establishment of teachers' departments, be for a time suspended. This motion was carried, and these departments, as heretofore conducted, was discontinued.

In 1844 the Legislature took up the recommendation of Superintendent-leges, Academies and Common Schools, Hon. Calvin T. Halburd, had visited several of the Massachusetts normal schools, and had become familiar with their methods and organization. He had also studied into the operation of like rate normal schools in Europe, and became thoroughly convinced of the desirability of separate normal schools. He made a report to the Legislature on the 22d of March, which was clear, logical and convincing that the bill which Mr. Halburd introduced with the report soon became a law. In his report he declared that if the eight senatorial districts.

By the provisions of the law $9,000 was appropriated for the first year, and of a normal school at Albany, under the joint supervision of the Superintendent and the Regents of the University. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be apportioned from the several counties, according to population. The law required that pupils be