Kirk - 3

measure at the next session of that State
RESOLVED. That in our opinion the colored children of this State
should enjoy equal advantages with the whites; also . . .

p. 32

p. 39

p. 41

JAMES CRUIKSHANK, M. D., was born in Anglesey, Washington County,
N. Y., August 28th 1831. His early education was obtained at the district
school, where he remained (having early attended St. Lawrence
County) until he was eight years old the early removal of his parents
to Ogdensburg for two quarters, where he finished his education under
the instruction of Rev. Dr. Bullock. He matriculated at Union College
in 1847. During his college course he taught district schools for several
terms, and finding the work much to his taste, entered upon it as a pro-
sion.

RESOLVED, That the compensation now paid female teachers is not
a fair equivalent for the value of services rendered, and should be
materially increased.

RESOLVED, That the present organization of society, it is neither
expedient nor just to make the compensation of the two sexes equal
when their labor comes in competition.

RESOLVED, That the practice of providing gratuities for the entertain-
ment of ladies attending the meetings of the New York Teachers' Asso-
ciation be discontinued.

RESOLVED, That a committee of three be appointed to consider and
report for the great work of educating their children, also the best means
of bringing them to the full discharge of their duty in this work.

RESOLVED, That the free school (Third Decade of the Association)
RESOLVED, That the free school through the system of the state should
extend from the primary school to the university.

RESOLVED, That a committee of three be appointed to prepare a
memorial to the next Legislature asking for such changes in the law as
will allow women to hold school offices.

RESOLVED, What a committee of three be appointed to prepare a
memorial to the next Legislature asking for such changes in the law as
will allow women to hold school offices.

[stamp: Common School District No. 10]

p. 56

p. 58

p. 65

President Greene, of Brown University, reminded the Association of its
acquaintance with its early history. It was at the time that the teachers in
Massachusetts were agitating the question of forming a state association
of New York teachers who paid a delegation of New York teachers who
paid a visit to Boston at the time this Association was formed. He then
alluded to the spirit of the discussions of the Empire State. He then alluded
to the spirit of the discussions of the Empire State to greet the teachers
of the Empire State to greet the teachers of the Empire State in words of
commendation on their general character.