18  
EDUCATION AS A DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT.  

to educate, and I am not unmindful of the fact that only a few years ago a high official of our State called the system in question and intimated that we were giving too much instruction at public expense and that we should begin and end with the three Rs. He was at once so thoroughly an advocate of the cause and an almost universal expression of public sentiment in its favor, that no one has since ventured to question its wisdom or public necessity.  

The third principle of reform of which I spoke, namely, compulsory education, cannot be said to have achieved full success as yet. In this matter I may be pardoned a little egotism. As a member of the Legislature I did what I could for the passage of the Compulsory Education Act of that year. I regret that the Superintendent of Public Instruction cannot report that the law is fully enforced in every district in the State, but it was intended by its authors to be tentative in its workings and to lead the people gradually up to a belief in the principle and to acquiescence in its enforcement. The act was in reality a sort of local option law which provided the means for compelling attendance, but really left it to the discretion of the trustees in each district to decide whether the law should be enforced or not.  

The small advance made in this law towards the compulsory education of all children has only been reached after a lapse of more than three centuries since Luther first declared for the right of the State to enforce attendance at the schools, and more than two hundred years after Massachusetts had announced the same doctrine. How long it will take to educate our people up to a full compliance with this law will depend very much upon how earnest the teachers of the State are for its accomplishment. If they will, it can be done in another ten years; but in any event I believe it will be fully established by the end of this century. We have ceased to be a rural people, scattered over a wide domain with only a few small cities and towns. We have immense cities and many centres of dense population. We can no longer rely on the pride or good judgment of all parents to see that their children attend school. The increase of the idle and vicious classes in our midst will require the speedy and vigorous enforcement of the present law and also the adoption of the other and more advanced remedies. The first great duty of every government is to provide for the safety and well-being of the body politic. I shall not go into any rehash of the stale arguments as to the right of a Republican government to compel the education of her children. I will present but one idea on that matter.  

The right of a State to lay a tax for schools free presupposes and of necessity carries with it the right to compel the education of the children. If one parent may claim exemption from it, all may, and thus the entire system falls to pieces.  

I have thus carefully traced the growth of education from the earliest historical periods to the present day in order that we may more clearly see its present position and comprehend its relations with the general system of  

[illegible]  

[stamp: New York State Common School System]  