```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 1019

except in so far as it serves as an introductory exercise to drawing from the solid, or the cast of it.

At this point Treasurer E. N. Jones, being obliged to leave, Principal C. N. Cobb was appointed treasurer, pro tem.

The next paper was read by Commissioner J. Russell Parsons, Jr., of Hoosick Falls, N. Y., and was as follows:

COUNTY SUPERVISION.

"Education," says a shrewd writer, "is a subject on which every one thinks himself or herself capable of pronouncing an opinion. No one presumes to meddle with a question of astronomy or of chemistry unless he has made it the study of a life. In like manner, it is to be hoped that in proportion as we advance to a philosophy of education, there will be fewer who will take upon themselves to settle off-hand the most difficult questions regarding it." Mr. Pecksniff was likened "to a direction post, which is always telling the way to a place and never goes there." The road towards a science of education is studded with these Pecksniffian guide-posts. Meetings of educational theorists often resemble that ancient convention at Ephesus in which "some cried one thing and some another, for the assembly was confused and the more part knew not wherefore they were come together."

In the midst of conflicting opinions upon the science of education, it is encouraging to find, among intelligent men throughout the country, comparative unanimity in the practical art of education and the general means suggested to insure advancement in all its details. Dr. Philbrick, in a valuable paper on school reports, says: "In this branch of educational economy our country is clearly in the lead. The grand aggregate in a single issue of these school reports is upward of 38,000,000 pages. Foreign authorities agree in recognizing the great utility of this feature of our system." We have, therefore, exceptional opportunities to feel the pulse of the various educational systems of the United States. It is suggestive to note that the same needs are everywhere recognized; it is a mortification to find other States leading us in making provisions for meeting some of these needs.

The necessity for more systematic and thorough supervision in country schools is universally acknowledged. In his annual message for 1885, the Governor of Massachusetts points to the advanced condition of the schools in the cities and large villages as the best proof of the fact. A review of school legislation in New York since 1885 shows that we have made great progress. It is a significant fact that almost every measure bears principally and most directly upon schools in rural districts. These schools, however, still demand "protection from the imposition of bad work." The amendments of 1887, recently published in circular form, the straight-for statements in the address of this morning, prove the readiness with which the present most efficient Superintendent, the Hon. A. S. Draper, will cooperate with us if we do but agree in our needs.

The writer will first speak of those needs which are of vital importance, closing with a few practical suggestions which he has found helpful in his work. Surely we have not come here in nothing else than either to tell or to hear some new thing." On the contrary, this
```