[Page 35]

must submit to it, must defend and uphold it. Confusion, destruction await the state unless its authority is supreme. Its inherent right is to perpetuate itself. The welfare of its people, the support of its institutions, its honor among the nations are solemn obligations binding the state to enforce such laws, provide such defenses as shall unalterably secure its undending [undending - likely meaning enduring] duration. To secure this, its control over the state must, in every way possible, promote the intelligence and culture of its subjects. Its obligation to provide education is absolute. It can never safely surrender its control nor honorably evade its obligation. It has been well said that "The end at which the state aims is a noble life."

A republic like our own must insist upon the education of its citizens, for upon their intelligence and virtue its own existence depends. Other republics have flourished, but today are not, and their fall resulted from the defective education of their people. It behooves every lover of freedom, every loyal citizen, every patriotic American, to strive resolutely, with high and low, rich and poor, old and young, to secure for our country the blessings of a good education for every child in the land. Our work is not for New York only, but for our whole country. Our history, our position, our example in educational affairs largely influence other states. If true past privileges, if faithful to present obligations, if alive to future possibilities, as educators, as parents, as citizens, we will make our schools a vital part of the noblest work of the state; we will make the state the living support of the highest education the schools are able to give.

But while schools exist for the state, let it never be forgotten that they are a vital part of the state. In proportion as their life is healthful and strong, so the state gains in resources, in character, in position, in power. As they are neglected and ignored, the state loses its capacity for progress and achievement, and falls to the rear. The first duty the state owes to itself is self-preservation. The surest way to accomplish this is to advance and elevate the schools; to increase the physical, mental, moral and spiritual powers of its citizens by careful, systematic, thorough education.

In view of the relation they sustain to each other, consider briefly what the schools have a right to expect from the state. The fulfillment of the obligations of the state to the schools. This may be condensed into a single sentence: In one sense the obligations of the state to the schools are the wards of the state. They possess untold riches. The state is to protect them. They inherit enormous capacities. The state must expand and strengthen them. They

[Stamp: New York State Common School System]