42

ment, that their supervision is exact, that every provision is made for their advance. Fault-finding, censorious judgment, sweeping verdicts of condemnation effect little good. Criticism is constructive. If the old building is torn down, it must be to lay deeper and broader foundations for the new, to erect a larger and better structure than before. The state has the right to expect that the people will not only second the right to such movement, but will take the initiative themselves and point out the paths needed to reach desired results.

The state has a right to expect progressive methods in education that old conservative policy which is advocated by those who believe that what was good enough for their grandfathers is good enough for their children. When we hear such men plead, we feel that they would turn the wheels of progress a cog or two backward. Such men would prefer the stage coach to the express train, the caravel to the ocean steamship, and the tallow candle of their fathers to the incandescent light of the present day.

Two hundred and eighty-eight years have passed since Hendrick Hudson, in the "Half Moon," sailed up this bay to the river which bears his name and fame to succeeding centuries. It is difficult to name a state in history which, in less than three hundred years, has done more to deserve an honorable place in the annals of men, than New York. In wealth, in population, in magnitude of resources, agricultural, mineral, manufacturing; in extent of commerce and trade, in social advancement, in political liberty and power, in religious freedom, in the character of its citizens, their intelligence and their culture; in the true, the beautiful and the good; in whatever exalts and glorifies a state, New York stands proudly in the presence of her sister states, nor does she fear comparison with the nations of Europe, with which she is so intimately related through the bond of commercial and friendly intercourse. Under the government of the state, this city, the metropolis of America, holds proud place, justly deserved through commanding pre-eminence in all the arts of peace. Rather than indulge glowing fancies of what shall be the future grandeur of the state and city, let us go for promotion with unfailing zeal, with lofty enthusiasm born of certain faith in the magnificent achievements yet to gladden the hearts and lives of the generations to follow. Let us consecrate ourselves anew to the work in our hands to do now for the city and state we are proud to call our own. Their past history is safely written in honor. Their present position is superb and strong. Their future will be determined largely by what we of

[stamp: New York State Common School System]
[illegible]