```
STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION. 35

them to think some of their duties as well as of their rights. Education after all is the great preserver of the peace, and I still think that the pedagogue may be a more efficient guardian than the policeman.

It is with some hesitation that I appear before this most important pedagogic organization in our state, as one of those who will address its members, nor would I presume to do so on any subject relating solely to scholastic instruction. It is because I believe that education even in our public schools is a far more comprehensive thing than instruction, that the acquisition of wisdom is far more important than the acquisition of knowledge—although I can hope to add little to your stock of either—that as a layman I venture to take part in the councils of the schoolmasters abroad.

In elementary and secondary education there is a philosophy that is not limited by school-house walls, and while "needed reforms" urged by wandering school commissioners may be properly regarded with suspicion, I yet hope that you will "hear me for my cause;" for I am persuaded that I can persuade you that it is a good one, if you are not already enlisted under its banner.

The day when the object of an education was believed to be to equip a man to earn a living has passed, and we now understand that the great function of an education is to teach men how to live rather than how to make a living. The justification and object of public instruction supported by general taxation in a free government is to prepare the youth of the land for the duties of citizenship, to intelligently discharge its obligations and enjoy its blessings. The stability of our institutions rests upon the intelligence and purity of our citizenship, the state is vitally concerned with the creation, building up and maintenance of good, strong, manly character among its growing youth. Never in the history of our country has there been greater need of men of character in every walk and condition of life than at the present moment. Boys must be taught concerning the duties as well as the rights of citizenship, their duties to themselves, and to their fellowmen.

Most thinking men of every religious belief admit that the best possible results of education can only be attained with religion as the basal principle, but most loyal religi[?]st[s] esteem their own religion the best and do not want their children brought under the influence of any other in their school lives. Therefore it has happened that most broad thinking men, whatever their religion may be and claim in a common expression of opinion concerning that subject and claim our public schools now and ever, the sheet anchor of the republic, free for rich and poor, Protestant and Catholics, Pagan or Jew, the nursery of American patriotism, the cradle of American citizenship, the hope of the American nation, it is there our children meet on common ground. The babel of tongues is forgotten in the good old Anglo-Saxon; German, French, Italian, Spaniard and the people from the four corners of the globe are all made one people, and that people know but one flag, the stars and stripes, and one country—America. Men thinking thus have concluded that the permanency of our public school system is safer without religious instruction and reluctantly decide in the interest of all to go on without it, leaving its fostering care to the church and family.
```

[Note: The text appears to be from a historical document discussing the role of education in society, particularly focusing on the importance of public schools and the integration of students from diverse backgrounds. The author emphasizes the need for education to instill good character and citizenship, while also addressing the role of religion in public education.]