36  
HOW MAY COMMON SCHOOLS BE IMPROVED?

agricultural, mechanical or religious world that is not represented by associations. Every meeting of each particular interest is rewarded by the know- edge of some greater advantage to be obtained over the elements of production, the productions of the soil, accelerated facilities of manufacture, increased for the erring.

In discussing the merits of questions introduced for consideration, teachers are brought face to face with practical suggestions and advice suited to the everyday revelation of actual school work as others see it. They can not fail to find something to model after or something to avoid.

From the nature of the surroundings of the common schools in the rural districts, the township system promises more favorable result than any pro- position that has been discussed.

By unanimous vote, a resolution was passed at the last session of the Monroe county Teachers' Association, asking the State Legislature to pass a special act that will enable our county to adopt the township system. We do not ask this merely for change. The inefficient supervision of the schools under the present system has become a matter of common fame. We are not inclined to criticise the work of the commissioners. Most of them are doing as well as they can under the complicated discouragements by which they are surrounded. Results have shown conclusively that a change that does not mediate impossibilities is necessary.

To illustrate; the 112 commissioners' districts of the State include 12,000 schools. This gives on an average more than 100 schools to each commissioner, embracing about 400 square miles of territory, over which he must travel to visit the schools under his care. Each school should be visited four times during the school year, or twice during each term, making at least 400 visits for each commissioner. Again, if we divide the 12,000 schools equally among the 945 towns, it would give less than 13 schools to each town.

Suppose each town had a board of education, whose duties should be similar to those of the commissioners. In place of the supervision of 100 schools falling upon one individual, as at present, one man would visit 13 schools within an area of 4 square miles. The local boards would necessarily know of the wants, necessities and peculiarities of the districts under their care, and send teachers adapted to the wants of each. The possibilities for more efficient supervision would be better than under the present system, however faithfully the commissioners may discharge their duties.

The question of the representation of the County Teachers' Associations by delegates to the State Association has been thoroughly discussed in many of the County Associations of the State. This would strengthen our State organization by admitting the representatives of the primaries of all the schools. It would also encourage the live teachers to the possibilities of future attainments, and sting the drones from the hive. They are looking to you for acquiescence to their request;

[stamp: MONROE COUNTY TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION]