```plaintext
SOME RECENT CRITICISMS ON OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 5

large measure as they assume; and, then, whether so large a measure of responsibility belongs to us as they express or imply; and, lastly, whether we can possibly devise changes in the school laws, in the school procedures, in the school aims, that shall offer a reasonable ground of assurance that any portion of responsibility that does fairly belong to us may be met and discharged.

The task is immense: room for objurration and retort, there is absolutely none. In this brief essay I can of course do nothing more than outline my conception of the mode of treatment which, did space permit, should be followed in a full discussion of my theme.

I do not know but there are some so thorough optimists present in this body of educators that they deny at the outset the major premise of the critics, and refuse to enter upon an argument which postulates the existence in society and the state of grave evils that have a presumable relation to education. One's opinion in such a matter is very personal thing. It depends upon his temperament, his training, his associations, his newspapers. Whether the voters are corruptible; whether the young men and women are self-indulgent and accessible to temptation; whether the American high-school "graduate" despises work; who knows and can demonstrate? But I must say, however any of us are minded on these questions, the assertion of these evils has now become almost a common-place of the periodical press, and the denial of them is exceedingly rare. The maintenance of civil and social virtue, we all believe, is essential to the stability of the State. That all the signs of the existence of such virtue in unimpaired fullness are as encouraging as ever, it would seem to me hardhood to affirm. We remember what Maine did less than two years ago. We know that the repudiating madness comes from time to time a step further northward. We know for what ignoble purposes the conspicuous statesmen do what they do. We have wondered whether a great people would rise up against dishonesty as they rose up against treason twenty years ago. I know a corps of high school teachers who, when independently consulted, were found to agree that not more than half of their pupils were profiting largely by their studies, while many were forming habits of idleness at the expense of the state which would some day render them less useful than they would otherwise have been to the state.

Between extreme pessimism and extreme optimism are of course many degrees and shades of opinions concerning the condition of society and the state. But unless one stands far towards the optimist extreme, I cannot see how he can help granting to the critics their major premise, the assumption, namely, that special vices prevail in society and the state, which demand explanation and remedy.

As to the proportion of these social and civil vices that may properly be said to be chargeable to the schools, I think we shall be compelled to differ from the extreme statements of the more violent critics, but to listen favorably to the calmer suggestions of the more reasonable ones. Such men as the author of "Certain Dangerous Tendencies in American Life" hint that they
```