[Page 36]

hold unlimited powers for good or for evil. The state must secure their exercise for the good. In doing this, the state not only fulfills in part its obligation to the schools, but most surely in its own preservation.

Some particular features of the obligation of the state to care for the schools come into view. To provide for the elementary instruction of all the children is to repeat a truism, but its repetition will not be heard too often. Not till every child of the school age is actually in attendance every day of the school year, prevented by good cause, will the state have fulfilled the initial part of its obligation to the schools. Non-attendance, or irregularity of attendance, is an injury to pupils, classes and schools. The state must compel the attendance of children in school through the entire period demanded by law.

But the state must also provide for pupils whatever is needed for their comfort and success in school. Not only in this center of wealth and power should buildings in every way suitable for their purpose be provided, but in villages, towns and rural districts, throughout our entire domain, care should be taken to secure grounds and buildings, commodious, well appointed, perfectly adapted to the needs of the children who spend so many hours each day within them. The proper arrangement of rooms, their ventilation, lighting, seating, warming, furnishing with maps, apparatus, books, pictures, engravings, ought to be insisted upon by the state for pupils in Hamilton and Warren counties as truly as for pupils in Greater New York.

In the buildings which it is hoped the state of New York will some day provide for all the children in our schools will be found teachers whose qualifications must be adequate for their work. In studies they must be accurate; in professional spirit, genuine and true; in zeal, untiring; with largeness of vision to see the magnitude and responsibilities of their high and honorable office. There will never be too much care in the selection of teachers, nor too much work given to prepare them for their duties. As the family, unfortunately, is thrusting constantly upon the school the discharge of its inherent duties in the moral as well as mental training of children, teachers are of necessity obliged to watch over pupils unceasingly to protect them from evil influences, and to surround them with whatever is pure and virtuous and noble in manly or womanly character.

The state must supplement the work of teachers by the ablest supervision possible. It is a true saying that "The people are the most intelligent and civilized, not merely where the most money is

[illegible]