Page 38

educational foundations are strongly laid, the superstructure
ought to be as wisely and securely constructed. Many pupils, many
teachers, too, are content with superficial attainments. Examinations
are passed, commencements held, pupils graduated, and
teachers—take their vacations. But lessons carelessly learned,
examinations passed by crowding or by collusion, leave ugly proofs
of the pupil's folly and the teacher's crime. When the life work is
begun, after school days are over, the mistakes and faults of an
imperfect education show plainly as the unseemly fissures and
sagging walls in buildings of poor material and defective workmanship.
There never can be good common schools without good
teachers; there never can be good teachers without the highest
grade of secondary education, supplemented by the best technical
training received in first-class normal schools and training classes.

Respecting higher education and the state, it is certain that
secondary schools can never attain the highest efficiency unless
their teachers receive an education superior to that given in these
schools alone. Principals and teachers in high schools and academies
should be graduates of college or university, should have
more thorough preparation for their duties in instructing pupils,
who will themselves be teachers in elementary schools, than these
pupils can possibly receive there. It is only as the highest grade
of scholarship and perfect efficiency in management are combined
that principals of academies and high schools, of normal schools
and training classes can be secured whose influence will perpetuate
itself for good in the institutions of which they always must be the
inspiration and controlling force.

Education, whether elementary, secondary or higher, is one in
spirit, aim and purpose; the improvement and elevation of men.
The welfare and prosperity of the state depend upon all the schools
it fosters and protects. As the conservator of whatever is energizing,
uplifting and ennobling for its people, the state
will realize that education is an integral part of its life; and that
it must not be content with less intelligence and culture in its
citizens when greater can be secured.

Inasmuch as the interests of the schools and of the state are
one in fact as truly as in theory, inasmuch as education is not
for one class of citizens nor for one section of the state, there-
fore the state, in order to complete and perfect its system of
money for their support. The authority of the state ought to be
exercised in rural districts, in villages, and in cities compelling
the construction and furnishing of school buildings and proper care
of school grounds. The many unsightly [illegible]