The following is a transcription of the document image, adhering to the specified rules:

---

The reasons for the Commission's conclusion that it cannot obtain a reliable State-wide figure on existing building capacity are these:

1. It is extremely difficult to formulate standards for appraising existing buildings which would be acceptable and applicable State-wide; but the Commission will develop standards which can be used with modifications in all types of districts.

2. It also has been difficult to develop objective procedures for appraising the structural, health, safety, educational, and other aspects of school buildings.

3. It is time-consuming and expensive to determine the relative advantages and costs of bringing existing buildings up to standards, through rehabilitation, modernization, or replacement, because it involves field study by competent engineers, architects, and educators.

The Commission has formulated various standards and procedures and tested them in particular school buildings. Each trial has led to further improvements and refinements, but no completely satisfactory solution has been found to date. When field tests have demonstrated that workable standards and procedures have been found, these will be summarized in handbook form for local use.

The job of developing standards and procedures relative to existing buildings was assigned to the New York City office of the Commission.

After extensive experimentation several sets of forms were developed for rating and checking school building facilities. These forms were then utilized in various studies and reports:

1. Check List of Substandard or Obsolescent Characteristics—It enables school administrators with the assistance of building service personnel to check substandard and obsolescent characteristics.

---

2. Rating Form for Elementary School Buildings—It provides ratings for the various categories of structural and educational facilities.

3. School Building Inventory Form—This was developed in cooperation with the State Department of Education to determine the condition of school buildings. Copies were submitted to all schools in the State, except in New York City.

4. Guide for Field Study—It utilizes the professional skills of an educator, architect, and technical inspector in the rating and screening of school buildings.

5. Architect's Check List—To assist architects in their rating of school buildings, this form was developed with the assistance of the New York City Planning Commission.

6. Building Inspection Report—This represents the final arrangement of the rating form designed for screening educational and building facilities in New York City. It was developed in conjunction with the New York City area study.

The New York Office also completed a Handbook on Modernization and Rehabilitation, designed to help communities determine whether it is feasible to modernize or rehabilitate their school buildings. Included in this handbook are a set of tentative minimum acceptable standards for school building and educational facilities; an estimate of unit costs, developed in conjunction with Mr. Emil Schmidlin, an architect; findings and recommendations based on the school building inventory form which was sent to school officials throughout the Nation; and a selected, annotated bibliography of the current literature on modernization and rehabilitation of schools.

Unless the area study in New York City shows that further work needs to be done on the tentative standards and procedures, the Commission soon will issue a technical report on the appraisal of capacity and utilization of school buildings.

---

[stamp: New York State Common School System]

---

Page 28

---

This transcription preserves the original spelling, capitalization, and punctuation exactly as written, maintains the original line breaks and formatting, uses [?] for unclear text, [illegible] for completely illegible sections, notes any stamps, seals, or marginal annotations in brackets, and preserves archaic spellings and abbreviations as instructed.