[Page 1020 of a Department of Public Instruction document]

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

is a time for exhaustive discussion of existing imperfections, for de[sic]sive action in all matters ripe for action, and for helpful suggestions to improve the character of our work.

I. The time has come when school commissioners should take some definite action to lead to the improvement of the force of teachers. Although we should deeply regret the loss of the Uniform Examination Bill, yet we can secure, in a large measure, the provisions of the act without much delay and without further legislation.

The statute now directs school commissioners "in the forms which are or may be prescribed by the State Superintendent." It specifies neither the subjects for examination (excepting physiology and hygiene), nor the duration of the licenses. It authorizes the State Superintendent to give temporary licenses, limited to any school district, to issue State certificates for the use of school commissioners, specifying the subjects for examination and the time for which the licenses shall be given respectively. The Superintendent, then, has power to prescribe forms of certificates for the use of school commissioners, specifying the subjects for examination and the time for which the licenses shall be given respectively.

It is my belief that we should join in requesting the State Department Commissioners anxious for uniformity should agree, on their part, to prepare questions to be used in the examination of teachers. In all cases the papers should be filed and, if desired, returned to the Department for inspection. In this way the successful applicant will hold a certificate of more than local value, furnished and approved by the State Superintendent.

Eighty school commissioners speak of the necessity for uniform standards in the examination of teachers. If these commissioners will unite in asking the Department to furnish questions for their use, to be issued for the first time in September, 1887, I have reason to believe the request will be acceded to. In this way uniformity was secured in Indiana. The State Superintendent of Indiana says: "The State Board of Education prepares the questions and sends them every month to the ninety-two counties of Indiana. The uniform standard of qualifications thus established was low at first to meet the necessities of the times, but has been raised from month to month until it is now reasonably high."

Four or five commissioners should unite at once in drafting a circular letter to be mailed to each school commissioner, setting forth the advisability of this plan, and inclosing a formal request for its adoption, to be signed by school commissioners and returned to the superintendent. This now seems the simplest way to approximate that uniformity which is so generally desired, and of which the Commissioner of Education, in his report for 1884-85, says, referring to the contemplated action in New York: "It is certain that until some such action is taken, no extended, well-sustained movement for the perfecting of the teaching service is possible." This experiment will then be tried. Our cooperation will insure success, and any legislation deemed necessary can then be secured without difficulty. Given a fixed standard for the examination of teachers, and we trust, let us refer to a need which, we believe, will be touched upon in the section of professional training of teachers, and we [illegible]