32  
HOW MAY COMMON SCHOOLS BE IMPROVED?  

be put into practice under the eye of an expert. Such training schools by continuing in session from four to twelve weeks would render incalculable service to our young and untrained teachers. Such schools have been started in some States under the name of county normal Institutes. The county normal Institute would supply a gap in our present system. All candidates for teaching who have not been trained elsewhere should be compelled to complete a course in the county normal Institute before being permitted to teach. But let us not confound institutions. The county normal Institute is for those who are about to become teachers; the Teachers' Institute is for those who are teachers.  

Let all attend the Teachers' Institute to hear the purposes of teaching unfolded, to hear the principles of teaching expounded, and to see the most approved processes of school work. Let the older teachers go forth from the Institute to put into daily practice the principles which have met the approval of their reason. Let the younger teachers go from the Institute to the county normal schools and learn under their special guide to put into practice the principles they have heard.  

---  

HOW MAY COMMON SCHOOLS BE IMPROVED?  

A PAPER BY PRINCIPAL ADDISON M. BROWN, BARNARD'S CROSSING, N.Y.  
Mr. President and Members of the Association:—There is no more important subject agitating the public mind than the question how we may improve the public school.  

To its benign influence the rapid strides of progress that have exalted us as a people are due. The advantages which our common school system offers have been repeatedly demonstrated in the lives of our statesmen during our brilliant career as a nation.  

As capital influences labor, by turning it into proper channels of success, so has education influenced mind, by directing its powers for grasping results. This can properly be effected by knowing what we wish to accomplish, how the work should be done, and through what channels we may hope to reach the best and most satisfactory conclusions.  

The most significant reform tending to the general interests of the common school was the abolition of the rate bill in 1867. This change made it possible for every child in the State to enjoy the advantages of a free school education, which to many had been denied before on account of poverty.  

Under its present management our common school system is cursed with a class of poor teachers, though many of them are graduates from high schools, filled to the brim with book knowledge. Their indifference to [illegible]  

---  

[stamp: New York State Common School System]  
[annotation: Page 32, Section on Improving Common Schools, 1867 reform noted]  