```plaintext
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

was presided over by Jabez D. Hammond the author of the "Political History of New York." Forty-two of the fifty-nine counties were represented, and Colonel Young, the State Superintendent, Horace Mann and many eminent men and participated in the deliberations. Subsequent gatherings of the same character were held at Rochester in 1843, at Syracuse in 1844, and at Albany again in 1846.

PERMANENT ORGANIZATION OF "THE STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION."

A most important convention assembled at Syracuse on July 30 and 31, 1845, if its importance is to be measured by permanent results. It was the first meeting of a permanent and enduring State Teachers' Association. On the first day 185 delegates were present from thirty-two counties. On the next day 300 teachers were present. William Ross of Seneca was temporary, and J. W. Bulkeley of Albany, permanent president. Substantially the first business was to invite all the text-book agents to address the convention, and Mr. A. L. Smith of New York, agent for Smith's geography, arithmetic, grammar and divers other books; Mr. H. H. Hawley, publisher of Perkins' mathematical series; Mr. Silas Cornell, manufacturer of globes, Mr. A. R. Boyle, a phonographist, Mr. B. Mortimer, agent for Salem Town's books, and others, overcame the traditional and proverbial modesty of their craft sufficiently to advocate their respective claims before the convention. This convention discussed ably and seriously the leading educational questions of the day, including the reading of the Bible in the schools, the necessity for pedagogical literature, school discipline, and the education and elevation of the teaching profession. It determined upon and effected a permanent organization which has met each year since, except that the meeting of 1850, which was to have been in New York City, was not held because of the prevalence of cholera. This gathering constitutes the forty-fifth in the series of annual meetings.

And what a notable and noble series of educational meetings it has been! How they have been anticipated, and how they have been remembered! What tender ties of affection have been here welded! How many minds have been here opened to the light! The destiny of how many children has been here influenced and directed! How these meetings have affected the educational policy of the State and the United States.

OTHER ASSOCIATIONS.

At the annual meeting of the State Teachers' Association in Troy, in August, 1856, the superintendents in the cities and villages, and the county commissioners, formed the State Association of Commissioners and Superintendents. The association has met regularly since. This organization has really come to be distinctly an association of county commissioners, as the superintendents have since associated themselves together in still another organization.
```

[Note: The page number "74" is visible at the top left corner of the left page. No stamps, seals, or marginal annotations are visible in this image.]