[Page 58]

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

from their immediate advantages. The establishment of common schools throughout the State is happily calculated to remedy this inconvenience, and will therefore engage your early and decided consideration."

These influential appeals brought from the Legislature of 1795 a law entitled "An act for the encouragement of schools," which became the substantial corner-stone of a State elementary school system. It appropriated $100,000 each year for five years, from the State treasury "for the purpose of encouraging and maintaining schools in the several cities and towns of this State, in which the children of the inhabitants residing in the State shall be instructed in the English language, or be taught English grammar, arithmetic, mathematics and such other branches of knowledge as are most useful and necessary to complete a good education."

This was a grand and noble thing to do. The appropriation was munificent when we consider the valuation upon which it was levied. The entire assessable valuation then would have been about $100,000,000. The same rate upon our valuation would yield nearly $3,500,000 as the annual State appropriation for common schools now, which, by a curious coincidence, is precisely what the State does appropriate. The State was then heavily in debt; it is free from debt now. But in addition to the appropriation, the act required each town to raise by tax half as much as it received from the State appropriation. It did not authorize this; it required it.

In the Assembly, when the bill was under consideration, a motion was made that each town should share in the appropriation only upon condition that it should raise one-half as much more by local taxation. The proposition was voted down. The House said no, there shall be no conditions or uncertainty about it. We will make this appropriation; we will require each town to raise half as much more as we give it, and we will set up the machinery which will insure its proper expenditure for elementary schools. This was not only a grand and noble, but a heroic thing to do.

But in other ways this first general school law reveals the handiwork of the best statesmanship. It stated the purpose of the law accurately and felicitously. It provided a system for allotting the appropriation and for the annual election of not less than three nor more than seven commissioners in each town, who were to supervise and direct the system. This appropriation was not intended to pay the full expense of the schools. It was only to assist. It was reasoned that the people in localities would associate together because of this assistance, and open schools. The act contemplated the organization of school districts in the country, provided for the election of trustees, and set forth their powers and duties. In short, it brought into being the elements of a State school system, and gave shape and form to that system, in essential particulars, as it exists to-day.

Wise and courageous as were the men who framed this great statute and breathed the breath of life into a common school system.

[Stamp: Department of Public Instruction]