```
6

A PAPER BY SAMUEL THURBER, A.M.,

trace to public education the roots of some of these dangerous tendencies.
That they merely hint, and that in a mysterious manner, indicates the incom-
pleteness of their knowledge, and is perplexing and tantalizing to us.
It was easy for Mr. Charles Francis Adams, Jr.,
inst. to send an agent of the Massachu-
sets Board of Education with examination questions into all the schools of a
small county, and then to tabulate the results and lithograph some of the
pupils' work.
The thought was a happy one, the results are invaluable,
and to all the world to-day is patent an inner view of our system,
which, startling as it is, is full of significance to all educators.
And, by the way, let me stop
a little in my argument, to say that to me it seems one of the most ominous
signs of our public education to-day that so many educators have been found
to repudiate as unimportant the Norfolk County Examinations.
The one
attempt of a critic to put his criticisms on a foundation of ascertainable
facts, made tangible and visible on the most unimpeachable testimony, deserves
from us surely the most grateful recognition.
If we welcomed criticism so
authenticated, we should be in a very much better situation than we are to
suggest the unsoundness of the mass of current, unsupported criticism.
But no possible examination can bring to light the status of the schools as regards
their moral influence, or their failure to exercise any moral influence.
Broad
statements can be met with broad denials.
Nothing can be proved or disproved.
A collection of facts as wide in its range as which Herbert Spencer is making
for his sociology would be needed to give us even a start in certainty for
such a course of reasoning.
But while the whole question of the responsibility
of the schools for the moral condition of society and the state is thus an open
one, we must acknowledge that whoever has taken us at our word when we
have made these inevitable speeches in the past about the dignity of the
teacher's calling, and about those far-reaching threads of influence that go out
from the school-room into the infinites and eternities, may demand of us
not to interfere with the critics when they propo-e to hold the schools responsible
for a part of whatever is wrong and misguided in men and women.

When we come to the question what we can do towards modifying the
schools so as to utilize the criticisms that are so freely lavished upon us,
we are confronted with grave difficulties.
From the critics themselves, no help
is to be had.
They do not know what they want.
They would be powerless to
help us organize it in the system if they did.
If they possessed a modicum of
tact; if they seriously purposed to make reforms instead of criticisms; if they
focalize their ideas, they might be able at length to announce to the world
certain specific changes in the system which they consider necessary, and
could then proceed to win the people over to their side by means of the press
and the usual machinery for erecting public opinion.
But they give us no
hope of this consummation.
The bad quarters of hours which they give us
schools any good, even while they were most poignantly.
If we teachers need
```

[Note: The text appears to be a printed page from a book or journal, and there are no visible stamps, seals, or marginal annotations in this particular image. The transcription follows the rules provided, preserving original spelling, capitalization, and punctuation exactly as written.]