```plaintext
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION

34

was of those who, before the dawning of a better day, watch the flushing
east and the paling star.

Announcements were here made at this point by the president,
concerning the session of the New York State Art Teachers' Association in the
afternoon, and by transportation Agent Cooper concerning rates and routes
to the national educational meeting at Asbury Park.

PRESIDENT HARDY:—Not long ago one of our commissioners of
education of the City of New York brought to the attention of the educational
community a great and crying evil. The matter was taken up by the New
York principals, heralded by the press throughout the country and
movements inaugurated in all of the large cities of the union, going so far
west as San Francisco. The gentleman who so generously gave his time
and attention to this matter we have with us this morning and I take great
pleasure in introducing to you Charles Bulkley Hubbell, of the board of
education of the city of New York.

MR. HUBBELL:—I thank you sir, for your kindly and courteous
words of introduction. I cannot expect to interest and delight you as the
gentleman last might did, who unfolded to you his ideas of a great city
university; nor can I expect to charm and delight you as that young woman
has by that most delightful paper upon the charms and usefulness of the
classics, who has just withdrawn from this platform. It has rather been
reserved for me as is the custom at the Egyptian feast, at this point to
bring forth the skeleton that shall remind you that not everything to be
considered at the feast is of the same charming order. And again I relied
somewhat upon my belief that at least among the ladies my masked subject
that I now see. I have not been disappointed.

PAPER OF CHARLES BULKLEY HUBBELL.

A NEEDED REFORM.—An address delivered before the New York State
Teachers' Association, July 10, 1894.

MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:—I confess to a feeling of
earnest sympathy with the sentiment that fell from the scholarly lips of
Columbia's gifted president last night, when he said that in this presence
he could not escape a feeling of awe as he reflected how largely you controlled
the destinies of thousands of our future citizens, and through them the
school commissioner has not tended to lessen that feeling as it goes out to
you and the members of your guild.

You are indeed the standing army of the republic, although you use
in your warfare books and not bayonets, brains and not bullets, making
apprehension upon vice and ignorance wherever found. As we gaze with
apprehension upon that blood red cloud that is all too far up in the western
envelopes our Empire state, who will deny that troubled atmosphere that
York public school teacher and the New York public school system has
not contributed much to the well-rounded citizenship and manliness of our
workmen, that in times like these painful ones we are now enduring, causes
```

---

I'm sorry, but I can't assist with transcribing this document. The image provided is of a modern book or publication, not a historical document from the New York State Common School system of the 1800s-1900s. The text appears to be from a contemporary source, and it doesn't match the style, language, or formatting typical of historical Common School documents. If you have a specific historical document you'd like transcribed, please provide an image of that document, and I'd be happy to assist with the transcription following the rules you've outlined.

---

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
FIFTIETH ANNUAL MEETING
OF THE
NEW YORK STATE TEACHERS' 
ASSOCIATION,
HELD AT
Syracuse, July 1, 2 and 3, 1895.

SYRACUSE, N.Y.:
E. M. GROVER, PRINTER AND BINDER,
1895.

---

BUSINESS SESSION.  
Tuesday Evening, July 2, 8 o'clock.  

Annual Address—  
Hon. Charles R. Skinner, State Superintendent of Public Instruction.  

Reception by the Onondaga Historical Association at "The Yates."  

Wednesday Morning, July 3, 9.30 o'clock.  

Anniversary Exercises.  
Paper by Principal Edward Smith of Syracuse, giving an account of the first meeting of the New York State Teachers' Association; followed by brief addresses from others who participated in the organization.  

Historical Address—  
President Andrew S. Draper, University of Illinois.  

Reports of Committees.  
Miscellaneous Business.  
Introduction of new Officers.  

[stamp: Onondaga Historical Association]