Frye's Geographies are universally recognized as representing an advance movement in education, but their crowning merit lies in the fact that they not only can secure better results than other books, but can make the pupils' work more interesting and the teachers' work lighter.

The success of Frye's Geographies, which is literally unparalleled in the history of text-book publishing, shows that there is a deep and widespread demand for the best ideas, methods, and books. It goes without saying, at the beginning, it requires a little more skill and pains to teach the pupils to get ideas instead of words from their text-books; but that is, of course, the only right way, and in a little time it becomes the easier and more pleasant.

The long list of towns throughout the State of New York that have adopted Frye's Geographies is a signal proof that the most cautious teachers, superintendents, and school men of the Empire State have been quick to recognize the sterling merits of these text-books. These Geographies are in harmony with the methods now followed by the best teachers of the subject. They are the first to embody these methods in a sensible, practical, and teachable form. They are in exact accord with the recommendations for geography study as embodied in the Regents' Requirements. They are indorsed in the highest terms by teachers and scientists, and have been introduced into hundreds of schools in New York and into thousands of schools throughout the country.

Frye's Geographies are in successful use in the following cities in New York:
City of New York,
City of Utica,
City of Brooklyn,
City of Yonkers,
City of Saratoga Springs,
City of Syracuse,
City of Ithaca,
City of Lockport,

and hundreds of other places in the State.

Ginn & Company, Publishers.

---

A Complete Series of Text-Books
FOR COMMON SCHOOLS.

ARITHMETIC.
Wentworth's Arithmetics. Clear in substance, sharp in outline, philosophical in method.
Speer's Arithmetics. Mark the beginning of a new epoch in the teaching of arithmetic.
Prince's Arithmetics by Grades. With Teacher's Manual. Eight small books containing a large number of practical graded problems.

GRAMMAR AND LANGUAGE.
Tarbell's Lessons in Language. Language and grammar harmonized.
Whitney and Knox's Elementary Lessons in English.
Whitney and Lockwood's English Grammar.

READING.
Stickney's Readers. A series of well-graded and attractive reading books.
Cyr's Readers. In harmony with the best educational thought of the day.

Classics for Children. 53 NUMBERS NOW READY.

READING CHART.
Burt's Child-Life Primary Reading and Education Chart. The best substitute for the Ideal Teacher.

WRITING.
Ginn & Company's Writing Books.
Shaylor's Vertical Round-Hand Writing Books. This is the only distinctly round-hand system.

SPELLING.
Graves' New Graded Spelling Book. Stickney's Word by Word.

HISTORY.
Montgomery's American Histories. The leading events of American history, with their causes and their results, distinctly and graphically shown.

GEOGRAPHY.
Frye's Geographies. The only series embracing the ideas and methods of progressive teachers.

NATURAL SCIENCE.
Stickney's Study and Story Nature Readers.
Strong's All the Year Round Series.
Newell's Botanics.
The Jane Andrews Books.

PHYSIOLOGY.
Blaisdell's Physiology. True, scientific, interesting, and teachable.

MUSIC.
Educational Music Course. Prominently a natural and rational course.

CIVIL GOVERNMENT.
Dawes' How We Are Governed.
Macy's Our Government.

BOOK-KEEPING.
Gay's Business Book-keeping.

DRAWING.
The National Drawing Course.

Ginn & Company, Publishers,
BOSTON. NEW YORK. CHICAGO. ATLANTA.
Address, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York.

[stamp: New York State Common School]